docs/introduction/installation.mdx, before:

---
id: installation
title: Installation and Update
sidebar_label: Installation
---

## Compatibility

Pester is compatible with every version of Windows that can run at least PowerShell 3.
That includes: *Windows 10, 8, 7, Vista*, and their respective Server versions *2016, 2012 R2, 2012, 2008 R2* and *2008*.

## Installing from PSGallery on Windows 10 or Windows Server 2016

Windows 10 and Windows Server 2016 make installing and updating PowerShell modules extremely simple by providing `Install-Module` and `Update-Module` cmdlets.
Unfortunately there are some complications specific to Pester that we cannot avoid.

Pester version 3.4.0 ships as part of Windows 10 and Windows server 2016, and that distribution conflicts with the standard module update mechanism.
It is not possible to update the built-in Pester to a newer version, using the `Update-Module` cmdlet.

Instead you need to perform a new side-by-side installation of Pester, because `Install-Module` detects the current installation of Pester is signed with a different signature than the one you are installing.

Here's the command you need to run _as administrator_ in order to get the latest version of Pester:

```powershell
Install-Module -Name Pester -Force -SkipPublisherCheck
```

The `-SkipPublisherCheck` option is typically required for machines that only have v3.4.0 installed as mentioned above.
That particular version of the module was signed by Microsoft to be shipped in-box, which is not the case for later versions which are community maintained and signed with a different certificate.
Attempting to install the module without that option may fail.

If you receive the following warning when trying to install the module, you may need to explicitly enable TLS 1.2:

```powershell
WARNING: Source location 'https://www.powershellgallery.com/api/v2/packages/Pester/4.10.1' is not valid
```

To enable TLS 1.2 for the current PowerShell instance, you can run the following code, and then re-run the installation command:

```powershell
[System.Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol = [System.Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol -bor [System.Net.SecurityProtocol]::Tls12
```

### Removing the Built-In Version of Pester

If you need to remove the built-in version of Pester on your machine, you can do so by executing the following code:

```
$module = "C:\Program Files\WindowsPowerShell\Modules\Pester"
takeown /F $module /A /R
icacls $module /reset
icacls $module /grant "*S-1-5-32-544:F" /inheritance:d /T
Remove-Item -Path $module -Recurse -Force -Confirm:$false

Install-Module -Name Pester -Force
```

For any subsequent update it is enough to run:

```powershell
Update-Module -Name Pester
```

## Installing from PSGallery on other versions of Windows

The way you can install a new module differs based on the version of PowerShell you are using.
Determine the version of PowerShell you are using by running:

```powershell
$PSVersionTable.PSVersion
```

### PowerShell 5 or newer

In version 5 or newer you can use the built-in `Install-Module` and `Update-Module` cmdlets coming from [PowerShellGet](https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShellGet).

From an _administrative_ PowerShell command line run:

```powershell
Install-Module -Name Pester
```

Or to update:

```powershell
Update-Module -Name Pester
```

### PowerShell 3 and 4

On PowerShell 3 and 4, there is no default package manager installed, but luckily PowerShellGet is available for installation.
See detailed [instructions here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/gallery/installing-psget#get-powershellget-module-for-powershell-versions-30-and-40).
When you have the package manager installed, please start a new _administrator_ PowerShell window and use:

```powershell
Install-Module -Name Pester
```

Or to update:

```powershell
Update-Module -Name Pester
```

## Installing from sources

To install Pester you don't have to use any package manager.
You can download the sources directly at our [release page](https://github.com/pester/Pester/releases) and copy them to your Module directory.
Your module directory is most likely `C:\Program Files\WindowsPowerShell\Modules\Pester` or `C:\Windows\System32\WindowsPowerShell\v1.0\Modules` (on older versions of Windows), please refer to `$env:PSModulePath` and
[this article](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dd878350(v=vs.85).aspx).

This approach can also be used to get unreleased versions of Pester, by clicking the `Clone or download` button on the [main page](https://github.com/pester/Pester), or [clicking this link](https://github.com/pester/Pester/archive/master.zip).

## Alternative package sources

PSGallery is the easiest way to get Pester installed to your computer, but there are alternatives.
On a build server you might prefer using [Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/), or if you're adding Pester to your .NET project that already uses NuGet, you might prefer using NuGet.
These options may not support pre-release versions and it may need to be initialized on first use.
For those reasons you might prefer installing from the other available sources.

### Chocolatey

Chocolatey (or choco) is the easiest way to [get Pester running on AppVeyor](https://github.com/pester/Pester#build-server-integration).
You avoid setting up PowerShellGet and it also supports pre-release versions.

```powershell
choco install Pester
```

Or to update:

```powershell
choco upgrade Pester
```

You can also pass the `--prerelease` option to install or update to a prerelease version of Pester instead.

### Nuget

[Nuget](https://www.nuget.org/) is the package manager for .NET projects.
Getting Pester from Nuget is useful when you are integrating PowerShell code with your .NET project, and want to have that code tested.
To install use Package Manager of Visual Studio, or Package Manager Console in Visual Studio.
Once you need this we are pretty sure you know what you are doing. :slightly_smiling_face:

Commit message:

General doc updates (#111)
* Update configuration-properties in migration guide

* add missing mdx metadata

* fix continue to usage link in quick start

* updated broken links after readme-migration

* Update caution + tip about scoping inside module

* promote new-pesterconfiguration

* use relative links

* updated breaking changes in v5

* updated install for sources

* Extend skip docs

* trailing whitespace

* update links

docs/introduction/installation.mdx, after:

---
id: installation
title: Installation and Update
sidebar_label: Installation
---

## Compatibility

Pester is compatible with every version of Windows that can run at least PowerShell 3.
That includes: *Windows 10, 8, 7, Vista*, and their respective Server versions *2016, 2012 R2, 2012, 2008 R2* and *2008*.

## Installing from PSGallery on Windows 10 or Windows Server 2016

Windows 10 and Windows Server 2016 make installing and updating PowerShell modules extremely simple by providing `Install-Module` and `Update-Module` cmdlets.
Unfortunately there are some complications specific to Pester that we cannot avoid.

Pester version 3.4.0 ships as part of Windows 10 and Windows server 2016, and that distribution conflicts with the standard module update mechanism.
It is not possible to update the built-in Pester to a newer version, using the `Update-Module` cmdlet.

Instead you need to perform a new side-by-side installation of Pester, because `Install-Module` detects the current installation of Pester is signed with a different signature than the one you are installing.

Here's the command you need to run _as administrator_ in order to get the latest version of Pester:

```powershell
Install-Module -Name Pester -Force -SkipPublisherCheck
```

The `-SkipPublisherCheck` option is typically required for machines that only have v3.4.0 installed as mentioned above.
That particular version of the module was signed by Microsoft to be shipped in-box, which is not the case for later versions which are community maintained and signed with a different certificate.
Attempting to install the module without that option may fail.

If you receive the following warning when trying to install the module, you may need to explicitly enable TLS 1.2:

```powershell
WARNING: Source location 'https://www.powershellgallery.com/api/v2/packages/Pester/4.10.1' is not valid
```

To enable TLS 1.2 for the current PowerShell instance, you can run the following code, and then re-run the installation command:

```powershell
[System.Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol = [System.Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol -bor [System.Net.SecurityProtocol]::Tls12
```

### Removing the Built-In Version of Pester

If you need to remove the built-in version of Pester on your machine, you can do so by executing the following code:

```
$module = "C:\Program Files\WindowsPowerShell\Modules\Pester"
takeown /F $module /A /R
icacls $module /reset
icacls $module /grant "*S-1-5-32-544:F" /inheritance:d /T
Remove-Item -Path $module -Recurse -Force -Confirm:$false

Install-Module -Name Pester -Force
```

For any subsequent update it is enough to run:

```powershell
Update-Module -Name Pester
```

## Installing from PSGallery on other versions of Windows

The way you can install a new module differs based on the version of PowerShell you are using.
Determine the version of PowerShell you are using by running:

```powershell
$PSVersionTable.PSVersion
```

### PowerShell 5 or newer

In version 5 or newer you can use the built-in `Install-Module` and `Update-Module` cmdlets coming from [PowerShellGet](https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShellGet).

From an _administrative_ PowerShell command line run:

```powershell
Install-Module -Name Pester
```

Or to update:

```powershell
Update-Module -Name Pester
```

### PowerShell 3 and 4

On PowerShell 3 and 4, there is no default package manager installed, but luckily PowerShellGet is available for installation.
See detailed [instructions here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/gallery/installing-psget#get-powershellget-module-for-powershell-versions-30-and-40).
When you have the package manager installed, please start a new _administrator_ PowerShell window and use:

```powershell
Install-Module -Name Pester
```

Or to update:

```powershell
Update-Module -Name Pester
```

## Installing manually

To install Pester you don't have to use any package manager. Downloading and installating it manually can be useful in e.g. offline envionments.

1. Download the module on a machine with internet using either:
    - **Recommended:** `Save-Module -Name Pester -Path C:\Temp`. It will save it in a versioned folder, ex *C:\Temp\Pester\5.0.4*
    - Or download the NuGet package from PowerShell Gallery, see [Manual Package Download](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/gallery/how-to/working-with-packages/manual-download)
2. Copy the Pester-folder (ex. C:\Temp\Pester) to your destination computer and place it in one of your module directories defined by [$env:PSModulePath](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_psmodulepath). On a Windows-system it will by default include:
    - *C:\Users\User123\Documents\WindowsPowerShell\Modules*
    - *C:\Program Files\WindowsPowerShell\Modules*
    - *C:\WINDOWS\system32\WindowsPowerShell\v1.0\Modules*
3. Start PowerShell and start testing.

:::note
Step 2 is optional if you don't need simple import, automatic module detection or module auto-loading. If so, you need to import the module using an absolute path like `Import-Module C:\Temp\Pester\5.0.4`.
:::

## Alternative package sources

PSGallery is the easiest way to get Pester installed to your computer, but there are alternatives.
On a build server you might prefer using [Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/), or if you're adding Pester to your .NET project that already uses NuGet, you might prefer using NuGet.
These options may not support pre-release versions and it may need to be initialized on first use.
For those reasons you might prefer installing from the other available sources.

### Chocolatey

Chocolatey (or choco) is the easiest way to [get Pester running on AppVeyor](https://github.com/pester/Pester#build-server-integration).
You avoid setting up PowerShellGet and it also supports pre-release versions.

```powershell
choco install Pester
```

Or to update:

```powershell
choco upgrade Pester
```

You can also pass the `--prerelease` option to install or update to a prerelease version of Pester instead.

### Nuget

[Nuget](https://www.nuget.org/) is the package manager for .NET projects.
Getting Pester from Nuget is useful when you are integrating PowerShell code with your .NET project, and want to have that code tested.
To install use Package Manager of Visual Studio, or Package Manager Console in Visual Studio.
Once you need this we are pretty sure you know what you are doing. :slightly_smiling_face:
