docs/commands/Add-ShouldOperator.mdx, before:

---
id: Add-ShouldOperator
title: Add-ShouldOperator
description: Help page for the PowerShell Pester "Add-ShouldOperator" command
keywords:
  - PowerShell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

:::info Generated from Pester 5.4.0 help
To contribute to this page, please update the source in the [Pester-repo](https://github.com/pester/pester).
:::

## SYNOPSIS

Register a Should Operator with Pester

## SYNTAX

```powershell
Add-ShouldOperator [-Name] <String> [-Test] <ScriptBlock> [[-Alias] <String[]>] [[-InternalName] <String>]
 [-SupportsArrayInput] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

This function allows you to create custom Should assertions.

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
function BeAwesome($ActualValue, [switch] $Negate) {
    [bool] $succeeded = $ActualValue -eq 'Awesome'
    if ($Negate) { $succeeded = -not $succeeded }

    if (-not $succeeded) {
        if ($Negate) {
            $failureMessage = "{$ActualValue} is Awesome"
        }
        else {
            $failureMessage = "{$ActualValue} is not Awesome"
        }
    }

    return New-Object psobject -Property @{
        Succeeded      = $succeeded
        FailureMessage = $failureMessage
    }
}

Add-ShouldOperator -Name BeAwesome `
    -Test $function:BeAwesome `
    -Alias 'BA'

PS C:\> "bad" | Should -BeAwesome
{bad} is not Awesome
```

Example of how to create a simple custom assertion that checks if the input string is 'Awesome'

## PARAMETERS

### -Name

The name of the assertion.
This will become a Named Parameter of Should.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 1
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Test

The test function.
The function must return a PSObject with a [Bool]succeeded and a [string]failureMessage property.

```yaml
Type: ScriptBlock
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 2
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Alias

A list of aliases for the Named Parameter.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: 3
Default value: @()
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -InternalName

If -Name is different from the actual function name, record the actual function name here.
Used by Get-ShouldOperator to pull function help.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: 4
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -SupportsArrayInput

Does the test function support the passing an array of values to test.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Add-ShouldOperator](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Add-ShouldOperator)

Commit message:

Update text based on review

docs/commands/Add-ShouldOperator.mdx, after:

---
id: Add-ShouldOperator
title: Add-ShouldOperator
description: Help page for the PowerShell Pester "Add-ShouldOperator" command
keywords:
  - PowerShell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

:::info This page was generated
Contributions are welcome in [Pester-repo](https://github.com/pester/pester).
:::

## SYNOPSIS

Register a Should Operator with Pester

## SYNTAX

```powershell
Add-ShouldOperator [-Name] <String> [-Test] <ScriptBlock> [[-Alias] <String[]>] [[-InternalName] <String>]
 [-SupportsArrayInput] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

This function allows you to create custom Should assertions.

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
function BeAwesome($ActualValue, [switch] $Negate) {
    [bool] $succeeded = $ActualValue -eq 'Awesome'
    if ($Negate) { $succeeded = -not $succeeded }

    if (-not $succeeded) {
        if ($Negate) {
            $failureMessage = "{$ActualValue} is Awesome"
        }
        else {
            $failureMessage = "{$ActualValue} is not Awesome"
        }
    }

    return New-Object psobject -Property @{
        Succeeded      = $succeeded
        FailureMessage = $failureMessage
    }
}

Add-ShouldOperator -Name BeAwesome `
    -Test $function:BeAwesome `
    -Alias 'BA'

PS C:\> "bad" | Should -BeAwesome
{bad} is not Awesome
```

Example of how to create a simple custom assertion that checks if the input string is 'Awesome'

## PARAMETERS

### -Name

The name of the assertion.
This will become a Named Parameter of Should.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 1
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Test

The test function.
The function must return a PSObject with a [Bool]succeeded and a [string]failureMessage property.

```yaml
Type: ScriptBlock
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 2
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Alias

A list of aliases for the Named Parameter.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: 3
Default value: @()
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -InternalName

If -Name is different from the actual function name, record the actual function name here.
Used by Get-ShouldOperator to pull function help.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: 4
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -SupportsArrayInput

Does the test function support the passing an array of values to test.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Add-ShouldOperator](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Add-ShouldOperator)

*This page was automatically generated from comment-based help in [Pester 5.4.0](https://github.com/pester/pester).*
