docs/commands/AfterAll.mdx, before:

---
id: AfterAll
title: AfterAll
description: Help page for the PowerShell Pester "AfterAll" command
keywords:
  - PowerShell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

:::note This page was generated using the comment-based help in Pester 5.4.0.
To edit the content of this page, change the corresponding help in the [Pester-repository](https://github.com/pester/pester).
:::

## SYNOPSIS

Defines a series of steps to perform at the end of the current container,
Context or Describe block.

## SYNTAX

```powershell
AfterAll [-Scriptblock] <ScriptBlock> [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

AfterAll is used to share teardown after all the tests in a container, Describe
or Context including all child blocks and tests.
AfterAll runs during Run phase
and runs only once in the current block.
It's guaranteed to run even if tests
fail.

The typical usage is to clean up state or temporary used in tests.

BeforeAll and AfterAll are unique in that they apply to the entire container,
Context or Describe block regardless of the order of the statements compared to
other Context or Describe blocks at the same level.

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
Describe "Validate important file" {
    BeforeAll {
        $samplePath = "$([IO.Path]::GetTempPath())/$([Guid]::NewGuid()).txt"
        Write-Host $samplePath
        1..100 | Set-Content -Path $samplePath
    }

    It "File Contains 100 lines" {
        @(Get-Content $samplePath).Count | Should -Be 100
    }

    It "First ten lines should be 1 -> 10" {
        @(Get-Content $samplePath -TotalCount 10) | Should -Be @(1..10)
    }

    AfterAll {
        Remove-Item -Path $samplePath
    }
}
```

This example uses AfterAll to clean up a sample-file generated only for
the tests in the Describe-block.

## PARAMETERS

### -Scriptblock

A scriptblock with steps to be executed during teardown.

```yaml
Type: ScriptBlock
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 2
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/AfterAll](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/AfterAll)

[https://pester.dev/docs/usage/setup-and-teardown](https://pester.dev/docs/usage/setup-and-teardown)

Commit message:

Update text and use info-admonition

docs/commands/AfterAll.mdx, after:

---
id: AfterAll
title: AfterAll
description: Help page for the PowerShell Pester "AfterAll" command
keywords:
  - PowerShell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

:::info Generated from Pester 5.4.0 help
To contribute to this page, please update the source in the [Pester-repo](https://github.com/pester/pester).
:::

## SYNOPSIS

Defines a series of steps to perform at the end of the current container,
Context or Describe block.

## SYNTAX

```powershell
AfterAll [-Scriptblock] <ScriptBlock> [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

AfterAll is used to share teardown after all the tests in a container, Describe
or Context including all child blocks and tests.
AfterAll runs during Run phase
and runs only once in the current block.
It's guaranteed to run even if tests
fail.

The typical usage is to clean up state or temporary used in tests.

BeforeAll and AfterAll are unique in that they apply to the entire container,
Context or Describe block regardless of the order of the statements compared to
other Context or Describe blocks at the same level.

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
Describe "Validate important file" {
    BeforeAll {
        $samplePath = "$([IO.Path]::GetTempPath())/$([Guid]::NewGuid()).txt"
        Write-Host $samplePath
        1..100 | Set-Content -Path $samplePath
    }

    It "File Contains 100 lines" {
        @(Get-Content $samplePath).Count | Should -Be 100
    }

    It "First ten lines should be 1 -> 10" {
        @(Get-Content $samplePath -TotalCount 10) | Should -Be @(1..10)
    }

    AfterAll {
        Remove-Item -Path $samplePath
    }
}
```

This example uses AfterAll to clean up a sample-file generated only for
the tests in the Describe-block.

## PARAMETERS

### -Scriptblock

A scriptblock with steps to be executed during teardown.

```yaml
Type: ScriptBlock
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 2
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/AfterAll](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/AfterAll)

[https://pester.dev/docs/usage/setup-and-teardown](https://pester.dev/docs/usage/setup-and-teardown)
