docs/commands/AfterEach.mdx, before:

---
id: AfterEach
title: AfterEach
description: Help page for the PowerShell Pester "AfterEach" command
keywords:
  - PowerShell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

:::info Generated from Pester 5.4.0 help
To contribute to this page, please update the source in the [Pester-repo](https://github.com/pester/pester).
:::

## SYNOPSIS

Defines a series of steps to perform at the end of every It block within
the current Context or Describe block.

## SYNTAX

```powershell
AfterEach [-Scriptblock] <ScriptBlock> [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

AfterEach runs once after every test in the current or any child blocks.
Typically this is used to clean up resources created by the test or its setups.
AfterEach runs in a finally block, and is guaranteed to run even if the test
(or setup) fails.

BeforeEach and AfterEach are unique in that they apply to the entire Context
or Describe block, regardless of the order of the statements in the
Context or Describe.

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
Describe "Testing export formats" {
    BeforeAll {
        $filePath = "$([IO.Path]::GetTempPath())/$([Guid]::NewGuid())"
    }
    It "Test Export-CSV" {
        Get-ChildItem | Export-CSV -Path $filePath -NoTypeInformation
        $dir = Import-CSV -Path $filePath
        # ...
    }
    It "Test Export-Clixml" {
        Get-ChildItem | Export-Clixml -Path $filePath
        $dir = Import-Clixml -Path $filePath
        # ...
    }

    AfterEach {
        if (Test-Path $file) {
            Remove-Item $file -Force
        }
    }
}
```

The example uses AfterEach to remove a temporary file after each test.

## PARAMETERS

### -Scriptblock

A scriptblock with steps to be executed during teardown.

```yaml
Type: ScriptBlock
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 2
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/AfterEach](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/AfterEach)

[https://pester.dev/docs/usage/setup-and-teardown](https://pester.dev/docs/usage/setup-and-teardown)

Commit message:

Update text based on review

docs/commands/AfterEach.mdx, after:

---
id: AfterEach
title: AfterEach
description: Help page for the PowerShell Pester "AfterEach" command
keywords:
  - PowerShell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

:::info This page was generated
Contributions are welcome in [Pester-repo](https://github.com/pester/pester).
:::

## SYNOPSIS

Defines a series of steps to perform at the end of every It block within
the current Context or Describe block.

## SYNTAX

```powershell
AfterEach [-Scriptblock] <ScriptBlock> [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

AfterEach runs once after every test in the current or any child blocks.
Typically this is used to clean up resources created by the test or its setups.
AfterEach runs in a finally block, and is guaranteed to run even if the test
(or setup) fails.

BeforeEach and AfterEach are unique in that they apply to the entire Context
or Describe block, regardless of the order of the statements in the
Context or Describe.

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
Describe "Testing export formats" {
    BeforeAll {
        $filePath = "$([IO.Path]::GetTempPath())/$([Guid]::NewGuid())"
    }
    It "Test Export-CSV" {
        Get-ChildItem | Export-CSV -Path $filePath -NoTypeInformation
        $dir = Import-CSV -Path $filePath
        # ...
    }
    It "Test Export-Clixml" {
        Get-ChildItem | Export-Clixml -Path $filePath
        $dir = Import-Clixml -Path $filePath
        # ...
    }

    AfterEach {
        if (Test-Path $file) {
            Remove-Item $file -Force
        }
    }
}
```

The example uses AfterEach to remove a temporary file after each test.

## PARAMETERS

### -Scriptblock

A scriptblock with steps to be executed during teardown.

```yaml
Type: ScriptBlock
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 2
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/AfterEach](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/AfterEach)

[https://pester.dev/docs/usage/setup-and-teardown](https://pester.dev/docs/usage/setup-and-teardown)

*This page was automatically generated from comment-based help in [Pester 5.4.0](https://github.com/pester/pester).*
