docs/commands/Assert-MockCalled.mdx, before:

---
id: Assert-MockCalled
title: Assert-MockCalled
description: Help page for the PowerShell Pester "Assert-MockCalled" command
keywords:
  - PowerShell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

:::info Generated from Pester 5.4.0 help
To contribute to this page, please update the source in the [Pester-repo](https://github.com/pester/pester).
:::

## SYNOPSIS

Checks if a Mocked command has been called a certain number of times
and throws an exception if it has not.

THIS COMMAND IS OBSOLETE AND WILL BE REMOVED SOMEWHERE DURING v5 LIFETIME,
USE Should -Invoke INSTEAD.

## SYNTAX

### ParameterFilter (Default)

```powershell
Assert-MockCalled [-CommandName] <String> [[-Times] <Int32>] [-ParameterFilter <ScriptBlock>]
 [-ModuleName <String>] [-Scope <String>] [-Exactly] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### ExclusiveFilter

```powershell
Assert-MockCalled [-CommandName] <String> [[-Times] <Int32>] [-ParameterFilter <ScriptBlock>]
 -ExclusiveFilter <ScriptBlock> [-ModuleName <String>] [-Scope <String>] [-Exactly] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

{{ Fill in the Description }}

## EXAMPLES

### Example 1

```powershell
PS C:\> {{ Add example code here }}
```

{{ Add example description here }}

## PARAMETERS

### -CommandName

{{ Fill CommandName Description }}

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 1
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Times

{{ Fill Times Description }}

```yaml
Type: Int32
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: 2
Default value: 1
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ParameterFilter

{{ Fill ParameterFilter Description }}

```yaml
Type: ScriptBlock
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: { $True }
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ExclusiveFilter

{{ Fill ExclusiveFilter Description }}

```yaml
Type: ScriptBlock
Parameter Sets: ExclusiveFilter
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ModuleName

{{ Fill ModuleName Description }}

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Scope

{{ Fill Scope Description }}

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: 0
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Exactly

{{ Fill Exactly Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Assert-MockCalled](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Assert-MockCalled)

Commit message:

Update text based on review

docs/commands/Assert-MockCalled.mdx, after:

---
id: Assert-MockCalled
title: Assert-MockCalled
description: Help page for the PowerShell Pester "Assert-MockCalled" command
keywords:
  - PowerShell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

:::info This page was generated
Contributions are welcome in [Pester-repo](https://github.com/pester/pester).
:::

## SYNOPSIS

Checks if a Mocked command has been called a certain number of times
and throws an exception if it has not.

THIS COMMAND IS OBSOLETE AND WILL BE REMOVED SOMEWHERE DURING v5 LIFETIME,
USE Should -Invoke INSTEAD.

## SYNTAX

### ParameterFilter (Default)

```powershell
Assert-MockCalled [-CommandName] <String> [[-Times] <Int32>] [-ParameterFilter <ScriptBlock>]
 [-ModuleName <String>] [-Scope <String>] [-Exactly] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### ExclusiveFilter

```powershell
Assert-MockCalled [-CommandName] <String> [[-Times] <Int32>] [-ParameterFilter <ScriptBlock>]
 -ExclusiveFilter <ScriptBlock> [-ModuleName <String>] [-Scope <String>] [-Exactly] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

{{ Fill in the Description }}

## EXAMPLES

### Example 1

```powershell
PS C:\> {{ Add example code here }}
```

{{ Add example description here }}

## PARAMETERS

### -CommandName

{{ Fill CommandName Description }}

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 1
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Times

{{ Fill Times Description }}

```yaml
Type: Int32
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: 2
Default value: 1
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ParameterFilter

{{ Fill ParameterFilter Description }}

```yaml
Type: ScriptBlock
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: { $True }
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ExclusiveFilter

{{ Fill ExclusiveFilter Description }}

```yaml
Type: ScriptBlock
Parameter Sets: ExclusiveFilter
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ModuleName

{{ Fill ModuleName Description }}

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Scope

{{ Fill Scope Description }}

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: 0
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Exactly

{{ Fill Exactly Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Assert-MockCalled](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Assert-MockCalled)

*This page was automatically generated from comment-based help in [Pester 5.4.0](https://github.com/pester/pester).*
