docs/commands/Assert-VerifiableMock.mdx, before:

---
id: Assert-VerifiableMock
title: Assert-VerifiableMock
description: Help page for the PowerShell Pester "Assert-VerifiableMock" command
keywords:
  - PowerShell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

## SYNOPSIS

Checks if all verifiable Mocks has been called at least once.

THIS COMMAND IS OBSOLETE AND WILL BE REMOVED SOMEWHERE DURING v5 LIFETIME,
USE Should -InvokeVerifiable INSTEAD.

## SYNTAX

```powershell
Assert-VerifiableMock [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

{{ Fill in the Description }}

## EXAMPLES

### Example 1

```powershell
PS C:\> {{ Add example code here }}
```

{{ Add example description here }}

## PARAMETERS

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Assert-VerifiableMock](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Assert-VerifiableMock)

## EDIT THIS PAGE

This page was auto-generated using the comment based help in Pester 5.4.0. To edit the content of this page, change the corresponding help in the [pester/Pester](https://github.com/pester/pester) repository. See our [contribution guide](https://github.com/pester/docs#contributing) for more information.

Commit message:

Updated generated docs-notice in command reference (#263)
* Prepend generated docs-note in command references

* Update text and use info-admonition

* Update text based on review

* Place version note under own heading

docs/commands/Assert-VerifiableMock.mdx, after:

---
id: Assert-VerifiableMock
title: Assert-VerifiableMock
description: Help page for the PowerShell Pester "Assert-VerifiableMock" command
keywords:
  - PowerShell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

:::info This page was generated
Contributions are welcome in [Pester-repo](https://github.com/pester/pester).
:::

## SYNOPSIS

Checks if all verifiable Mocks has been called at least once.

THIS COMMAND IS OBSOLETE AND WILL BE REMOVED SOMEWHERE DURING v5 LIFETIME,
USE Should -InvokeVerifiable INSTEAD.

## SYNTAX

```powershell
Assert-VerifiableMock [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

{{ Fill in the Description }}

## EXAMPLES

### Example 1

```powershell
PS C:\> {{ Add example code here }}
```

{{ Add example description here }}

## PARAMETERS

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Assert-VerifiableMock](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Assert-VerifiableMock)

## VERSION

*This page was generated using comment-based help in [Pester 5.4.0](https://github.com/pester/pester).*
