docs/commands/BeforeAll.mdx, before:

---
id: BeforeAll
title: BeforeAll
description: Help page for the PowerShell Pester "BeforeAll" command
keywords:
  - PowerShell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

:::info Generated from Pester 5.4.0 help
To contribute to this page, please update the source in the [Pester-repo](https://github.com/pester/pester).
:::

## SYNOPSIS

Defines a series of steps to perform at the beginning of the current container,
Context or Describe block.

## SYNTAX

```powershell
BeforeAll [-Scriptblock] <ScriptBlock> [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

BeforeAll is used to share setup among all the tests in a container, Describe
or Context including all child blocks and tests.
BeforeAll runs during Run phase
and runs only once in the current level.

The typical usage is to setup the whole test script, most commonly to
import the tested function, by dot-sourcing the script file that contains it.

BeforeAll and AfterAll are unique in that they apply to the entire container,
Context or Describe block regardless of the order of the statements compared to
other Context or Describe blocks at the same level.

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
BeforeAll {
    . $PSCommandPath.Replace('.Tests.ps1','.ps1')
}

Describe "API validation" {
    # ...
}
```

This example uses dot-sourcing in BeforeAll to make functions in the script-file
available for the tests.

### EXAMPLE 2

```powershell
Describe "API validation" {
    BeforeAll {
        # this calls REST API and takes roughly 1 second
        $response = Get-Pokemon -Name Pikachu
    }

    It "response has Name = 'Pikachu'" {
        $response.Name | Should -Be 'Pikachu'
    }

    It "response has Type = 'electric'" {
        $response.Type | Should -Be 'electric'
    }
}
```

This example uses BeforeAll to perform an expensive operation only once, before validating
the results in separate tests.

## PARAMETERS

### -Scriptblock

A scriptblock with steps to be executed during setup.

```yaml
Type: ScriptBlock
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 2
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/BeforeAll](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/BeforeAll)

[https://pester.dev/docs/usage/setup-and-teardown](https://pester.dev/docs/usage/setup-and-teardown)

Commit message:

Update text based on review

docs/commands/BeforeAll.mdx, after:

---
id: BeforeAll
title: BeforeAll
description: Help page for the PowerShell Pester "BeforeAll" command
keywords:
  - PowerShell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

:::info This page was generated
Contributions are welcome in [Pester-repo](https://github.com/pester/pester).
:::

## SYNOPSIS

Defines a series of steps to perform at the beginning of the current container,
Context or Describe block.

## SYNTAX

```powershell
BeforeAll [-Scriptblock] <ScriptBlock> [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

BeforeAll is used to share setup among all the tests in a container, Describe
or Context including all child blocks and tests.
BeforeAll runs during Run phase
and runs only once in the current level.

The typical usage is to setup the whole test script, most commonly to
import the tested function, by dot-sourcing the script file that contains it.

BeforeAll and AfterAll are unique in that they apply to the entire container,
Context or Describe block regardless of the order of the statements compared to
other Context or Describe blocks at the same level.

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
BeforeAll {
    . $PSCommandPath.Replace('.Tests.ps1','.ps1')
}

Describe "API validation" {
    # ...
}
```

This example uses dot-sourcing in BeforeAll to make functions in the script-file
available for the tests.

### EXAMPLE 2

```powershell
Describe "API validation" {
    BeforeAll {
        # this calls REST API and takes roughly 1 second
        $response = Get-Pokemon -Name Pikachu
    }

    It "response has Name = 'Pikachu'" {
        $response.Name | Should -Be 'Pikachu'
    }

    It "response has Type = 'electric'" {
        $response.Type | Should -Be 'electric'
    }
}
```

This example uses BeforeAll to perform an expensive operation only once, before validating
the results in separate tests.

## PARAMETERS

### -Scriptblock

A scriptblock with steps to be executed during setup.

```yaml
Type: ScriptBlock
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 2
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/BeforeAll](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/BeforeAll)

[https://pester.dev/docs/usage/setup-and-teardown](https://pester.dev/docs/usage/setup-and-teardown)

*This page was automatically generated from comment-based help in [Pester 5.4.0](https://github.com/pester/pester).*
