docs/commands/BeforeDiscovery.mdx, before:

---
id: BeforeDiscovery
title: BeforeDiscovery
description: Help page for the PowerShell Pester "BeforeDiscovery" command
keywords:
  - PowerShell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

:::note This page was generated using the comment-based help in Pester 5.4.0.
To edit the content of this page, change the corresponding help in the [Pester-repository](https://github.com/pester/pester).
:::

## SYNOPSIS

Runs setup code that is used during Discovery phase.

## SYNTAX

```powershell
BeforeDiscovery [-ScriptBlock] <ScriptBlock> [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

Runs your code as is, in the place where this function is defined.
This is a semantic block to allow you
to be explicit about code that you need to run during Discovery, instead of just
putting code directly inside of Describe / Context.

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
BeforeDiscovery {
    $files = Get-ChildItem -Path $PSScriptRoot -Filter '*.ps1' -Recurse
}

Describe "File - <_>" -ForEach $files {
    Context "Whitespace" {
        It "There is no extra whitespace following a line" {
            # ...
        }

        It "File ends with an empty line" {
            # ...
        }
    }
}
```

BeforeDiscovery is used to gather a list of script-files during Discovery-phase to
dynamically create a Describe-block and tests for each file found.

## PARAMETERS

### -ScriptBlock

The ScriptBlock to run.

```yaml
Type: ScriptBlock
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 1
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/BeforeDiscovery](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/BeforeDiscovery)

[https://pester.dev/docs/usage/data-driven-tests](https://pester.dev/docs/usage/data-driven-tests)

Commit message:

Update text and use info-admonition

docs/commands/BeforeDiscovery.mdx, after:

---
id: BeforeDiscovery
title: BeforeDiscovery
description: Help page for the PowerShell Pester "BeforeDiscovery" command
keywords:
  - PowerShell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

:::info Generated from Pester 5.4.0 help
To contribute to this page, please update the source in the [Pester-repo](https://github.com/pester/pester).
:::

## SYNOPSIS

Runs setup code that is used during Discovery phase.

## SYNTAX

```powershell
BeforeDiscovery [-ScriptBlock] <ScriptBlock> [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

Runs your code as is, in the place where this function is defined.
This is a semantic block to allow you
to be explicit about code that you need to run during Discovery, instead of just
putting code directly inside of Describe / Context.

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
BeforeDiscovery {
    $files = Get-ChildItem -Path $PSScriptRoot -Filter '*.ps1' -Recurse
}

Describe "File - <_>" -ForEach $files {
    Context "Whitespace" {
        It "There is no extra whitespace following a line" {
            # ...
        }

        It "File ends with an empty line" {
            # ...
        }
    }
}
```

BeforeDiscovery is used to gather a list of script-files during Discovery-phase to
dynamically create a Describe-block and tests for each file found.

## PARAMETERS

### -ScriptBlock

The ScriptBlock to run.

```yaml
Type: ScriptBlock
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 1
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/BeforeDiscovery](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/BeforeDiscovery)

[https://pester.dev/docs/usage/data-driven-tests](https://pester.dev/docs/usage/data-driven-tests)
