docs/commands/Context.mdx, before:

---
id: Context
title: Context
description: Help page for the Powershell Pester "Context" command
keywords:
  - Powershell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

## SYNOPSIS

Provides logical grouping of It blocks within a single Describe block.

## SYNTAX

```powershell
Context [-Name] <String> [-Tag <String[]>] [[-Fixture] <ScriptBlock>] [-Skip] [-Foreach <Object>]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

Provides logical grouping of It blocks within a single Describe block.
Any Mocks defined inside a Context are removed at the end of the Context scope,
as are any files or folders added to the TestDrive during the Context block's
execution.
Any BeforeEach or AfterEach blocks defined inside a Context also only
apply to tests within that Context .

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
function Add-Numbers($a, $b) {
    return $a + $b

}

Describe "Add-Numbers" {
    Context "when root does not exist" {
        It "..." {
            # ...

        }
    }

    Context "when root does exist" {
        It "..." {
            # ...

        }
        It "..." {
            # ...

        }
    }
}
```

## PARAMETERS

### -Name

The name of the Context.
This is a phrase describing a set of tests within a describe.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 1
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Tag

Optional parameter containing an array of strings.
When calling Invoke-Pester,
it is possible to specify a -Tag parameter which will only execute Context blocks
containing the same Tag.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: Tags

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: @()
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Fixture

Script that is executed.
This may include setup specific to the context
and one or more It blocks that validate the expected outcomes.

```yaml
Type: ScriptBlock
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: 2
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Skip

[Switch] $Focus,

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Foreach

Allows data driven tests to be written.
Takes an array of data and generates one block for each item in the array, and makes the item
available as $_ in all child blocks.
When the array is an array of hashtables, it additionally
defines each key in the hashatble as variable.

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Context](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Context)

[https://pester.dev/docs/usage/test-file-structure](https://pester.dev/docs/usage/test-file-structure)

[https://pester.dev/docs/usage/mocking](https://pester.dev/docs/usage/mocking)

[https://pester.dev/docs/usage/testdrive](https://pester.dev/docs/usage/testdrive)

## EDIT THIS PAGE

This page was auto-generated using the comment based help in Pester 5.2.1. To edit the content of this page, change the corresponding help in the [pester/Pester](https://github.com/pester/pester) repository. See our [contribution guide](https://github.com/pester/docs#contributing) for more information.

Commit message:

Bumps command reference to 5.3.3 and fixes PowerShell casing

docs/commands/Context.mdx, after:

---
id: Context
title: Context
description: Help page for the PowerShell Pester "Context" command
keywords:
  - PowerShell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

## SYNOPSIS

Provides logical grouping of It blocks within a single Describe block.

## SYNTAX

```powershell
Context [-Name] <String> [-Tag <String[]>] [[-Fixture] <ScriptBlock>] [-Skip] [-ForEach <Object>]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

Provides logical grouping of It blocks within a single Describe block.
Any Mocks defined inside a Context are removed at the end of the Context scope,
as are any files or folders added to the TestDrive during the Context block's
execution.
Any BeforeEach or AfterEach blocks defined inside a Context also only
apply to tests within that Context .

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
function Add-Numbers($a, $b) {
    return $a + $b

}

Describe "Add-Numbers" {
    Context "when root does not exist" {
        It "..." {
            # ...

        }
    }

    Context "when root does exist" {
        It "..." {
            # ...

        }
        It "..." {
            # ...

        }
    }
}
```

## PARAMETERS

### -Name

The name of the Context.
This is a phrase describing a set of tests within a describe.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 1
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Tag

Optional parameter containing an array of strings.
When calling Invoke-Pester,
it is possible to specify a -Tag parameter which will only execute Context blocks
containing the same Tag.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: Tags

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: @()
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Fixture

Script that is executed.
This may include setup specific to the context
and one or more It blocks that validate the expected outcomes.

```yaml
Type: ScriptBlock
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: 2
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Skip

[Switch] $Focus,

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ForEach

Allows data driven tests to be written.
Takes an array of data and generates one block for each item in the array, and makes the item
available as $_ in all child blocks.
When the array is an array of hashtables, it additionally
defines each key in the hashatble as variable.

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Context](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Context)

[https://pester.dev/docs/usage/test-file-structure](https://pester.dev/docs/usage/test-file-structure)

[https://pester.dev/docs/usage/mocking](https://pester.dev/docs/usage/mocking)

[https://pester.dev/docs/usage/testdrive](https://pester.dev/docs/usage/testdrive)

## EDIT THIS PAGE

This page was auto-generated using the comment based help in Pester 5.3.3. To edit the content of this page, change the corresponding help in the [pester/Pester](https://github.com/pester/pester) repository. See our [contribution guide](https://github.com/pester/docs#contributing) for more information.
