docs/commands/ConvertTo-Pester4Result.mdx, before:

---
id: ConvertTo-Pester4Result
title: ConvertTo-Pester4Result
description: Help page for the PowerShell Pester "ConvertTo-Pester4Result" command
keywords:
  - PowerShell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

## SYNOPSIS

Converts a Pester 5 result-object to an Pester 4-compatible object

## SYNTAX

```powershell
ConvertTo-Pester4Result [-PesterResult] <Object> [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

Pester 5 uses a new format for it's result-object compared to previous
versions of Pester.
This function is provided as a way to convert the
result-object into an object using the previous format.
This can be
useful as a temporary measure to easier migrate to Pester 5 without
having to redesign complex CI/CD-pipelines.

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
$pester5Result = Invoke-Pester -Passthru
$pester4Result = $pester5Result | ConvertTo-Pester4Result
```

This example runs Pester using the Passthru option to retrieve a result-object
in the Pester 5 format and converts it to a new Pester 4-compatible result-object.

## PARAMETERS

### -PesterResult

Result object from a Pester 5-run.
This can be retrieved using Invoke-Pester
-Passthru or by using the Run.PassThru configuration-option.

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 1
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByValue)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/ConvertTo-Pester4Result](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/ConvertTo-Pester4Result)

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Invoke-Pester](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Invoke-Pester)

## EDIT THIS PAGE

This page was auto-generated using the comment based help in Pester 5.4.0. To edit the content of this page, change the corresponding help in the [pester/Pester](https://github.com/pester/pester) repository. See our [contribution guide](https://github.com/pester/docs#contributing) for more information.

Commit message:

Updated generated docs-notice in command reference (#263)
* Prepend generated docs-note in command references

* Update text and use info-admonition

* Update text based on review

* Place version note under own heading

docs/commands/ConvertTo-Pester4Result.mdx, after:

---
id: ConvertTo-Pester4Result
title: ConvertTo-Pester4Result
description: Help page for the PowerShell Pester "ConvertTo-Pester4Result" command
keywords:
  - PowerShell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

:::info This page was generated
Contributions are welcome in [Pester-repo](https://github.com/pester/pester).
:::

## SYNOPSIS

Converts a Pester 5 result-object to an Pester 4-compatible object

## SYNTAX

```powershell
ConvertTo-Pester4Result [-PesterResult] <Object> [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

Pester 5 uses a new format for it's result-object compared to previous
versions of Pester.
This function is provided as a way to convert the
result-object into an object using the previous format.
This can be
useful as a temporary measure to easier migrate to Pester 5 without
having to redesign complex CI/CD-pipelines.

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
$pester5Result = Invoke-Pester -Passthru
$pester4Result = $pester5Result | ConvertTo-Pester4Result
```

This example runs Pester using the Passthru option to retrieve a result-object
in the Pester 5 format and converts it to a new Pester 4-compatible result-object.

## PARAMETERS

### -PesterResult

Result object from a Pester 5-run.
This can be retrieved using Invoke-Pester
-Passthru or by using the Run.PassThru configuration-option.

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 1
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByValue)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/ConvertTo-Pester4Result](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/ConvertTo-Pester4Result)

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Invoke-Pester](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Invoke-Pester)

## VERSION

*This page was generated using comment-based help in [Pester 5.4.0](https://github.com/pester/pester).*
