docs/commands/Describe.mdx, before:

---
id: Describe
title: Describe
description: Help page for the Powershell Pester "Describe" command
keywords:
  - Powershell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## SYNOPSIS

Creates a logical group of tests.

## SYNTAX

```powershell
Describe [-Name] <String> [-Tag <String[]>] [[-Fixture] <ScriptBlock>] [-Skip] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

Creates a logical group of tests.
All Mocks, TestDrive and TestRegistry contents
defined within a Describe block are scoped to that Describe; they
will no longer be present when the Describe block exits.
A Describe
block may contain any number of Context and It blocks.

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
function Add-Numbers($a, $b) {
```

return $a + $b

}

Describe "Add-Numbers" {
    It "adds positive numbers" {
        $sum = Add-Numbers 2 3
        $sum | Should -Be 5
    }

    It "adds negative numbers" {
        $sum = Add-Numbers (-2) (-2)
        $sum | Should -Be (-4)
    }

    It "adds one negative number to positive number" {
        $sum = Add-Numbers (-2) 2
        $sum | Should -Be 0
    }

    It "concatenates strings if given strings" {
        $sum = Add-Numbers two three
        $sum | Should -Be "twothree"
    }
}

## PARAMETERS

### -Name

The name of the test group.
This is often an expressive phrase describing
the scenario being tested.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 1
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Tag

Optional parameter containing an array of strings.
When calling Invoke-Pester,
it is possible to specify a -Tag parameter which will only execute Describe blocks
containing the same Tag.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: Tags

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: @()
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Fixture

The actual test script.
If you are following the AAA pattern (Arrange-Act-Assert),
this typically holds the arrange and act sections.
The Asserts will also lie
in this block but are typically nested each in its own It block.
Assertions are
typically performed by the Should command within the It blocks.

```yaml
Type: ScriptBlock
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: 2
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Skip

[Switch] $Focus,

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

It
Context
Invoke-Pester
about_Should
about_Mocking
about_TestDrive

Commit message:

Updates generate-help script to re-add footer and editUrl

docs/commands/Describe.mdx, after:

---
id: Describe
title: Describe
description: Help page for the Powershell Pester "Describe" command
keywords:
  - Powershell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

## SYNOPSIS

Creates a logical group of tests.

## SYNTAX

```powershell
Describe [-Name] <String> [-Tag <String[]>] [[-Fixture] <ScriptBlock>] [-Skip] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

Creates a logical group of tests.
All Mocks, TestDrive and TestRegistry contents
defined within a Describe block are scoped to that Describe; they
will no longer be present when the Describe block exits. 
A Describe
block may contain any number of Context and It blocks.

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
function Add-Numbers($a, $b) {
```

return $a + $b

}

Describe "Add-Numbers" {
    It "adds positive numbers" {
        $sum = Add-Numbers 2 3
        $sum | Should -Be 5
    }

    It "adds negative numbers" {
        $sum = Add-Numbers (-2) (-2)
        $sum | Should -Be (-4)
    }

    It "adds one negative number to positive number" {
        $sum = Add-Numbers (-2) 2
        $sum | Should -Be 0
    }

    It "concatenates strings if given strings" {
        $sum = Add-Numbers two three
        $sum | Should -Be "twothree"
    }
}

## PARAMETERS

### -Name

The name of the test group.
This is often an expressive phrase describing
the scenario being tested.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 1
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Tag

Optional parameter containing an array of strings. 
When calling Invoke-Pester,
it is possible to specify a -Tag parameter which will only execute Describe blocks
containing the same Tag.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: Tags

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: @()
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Fixture

The actual test script.
If you are following the AAA pattern (Arrange-Act-Assert),
this typically holds the arrange and act sections.
The Asserts will also lie
in this block but are typically nested each in its own It block.
Assertions are
typically performed by the Should command within the It blocks.

```yaml
Type: ScriptBlock
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: 2
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Skip

[Switch] $Focus,

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[It
Context
Invoke-Pester
about_Should
about_Mocking
about_TestDrive]()

## EDIT THIS PAGE

This page was auto-generated using Pester's comment based help. To edit the content of this page, change the corresponding help in the [pester/Pester](https://github.com/pester/pester) repository. See our [contribution guide](https://github.com/pester/docs#contributing) for more information.
