docs/commands/Export-JUnitReport.mdx, before:

---
id: Export-JUnitReport
title: Export-JUnitReport
description: Help page for the PowerShell Pester "Export-JUnitReport" command
keywords:
  - PowerShell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

:::info Generated from Pester 5.4.0 help
To contribute to this page, please update the source in the [Pester-repo](https://github.com/pester/pester).
:::

## SYNOPSIS

Exports a Pester result-object to an JUnit-compatible XML-report

## SYNTAX

```powershell
Export-JUnitReport [-Result] <Object> [-Path] <String> [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

Pester can generate a result-object containing information about all
tests that are processed in a run.
This object can then be exported to an
JUnit-compatible XML-report using this function.
The report is generated
using the JUnit 4-schema.

This can be useful for further processing or publishing of test results,
e.g.
as part of a CI/CD pipeline.

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
$p = Invoke-Pester -Passthru
$p | Export-JUnitReport -Path TestResults.xml
```

This example runs Pester using the Passthru option to retrieve the result-object and
exports it as an JUnit 4-compatible XML-report.

## PARAMETERS

### -Result

Result object from a Pester-run.
This can be retrieved using Invoke-Pester
-Passthru or by using the Run.PassThru configuration-option.

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 1
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByValue)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Path

The path where the XML-report should  to the ou the XML report as string.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 2
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Export-JUnitReport](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Export-JUnitReport)

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Invoke-Pester](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Invoke-Pester)

Commit message:

Update text based on review

docs/commands/Export-JUnitReport.mdx, after:

---
id: Export-JUnitReport
title: Export-JUnitReport
description: Help page for the PowerShell Pester "Export-JUnitReport" command
keywords:
  - PowerShell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

:::info This page was generated
Contributions are welcome in [Pester-repo](https://github.com/pester/pester).
:::

## SYNOPSIS

Exports a Pester result-object to an JUnit-compatible XML-report

## SYNTAX

```powershell
Export-JUnitReport [-Result] <Object> [-Path] <String> [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

Pester can generate a result-object containing information about all
tests that are processed in a run.
This object can then be exported to an
JUnit-compatible XML-report using this function.
The report is generated
using the JUnit 4-schema.

This can be useful for further processing or publishing of test results,
e.g.
as part of a CI/CD pipeline.

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
$p = Invoke-Pester -Passthru
$p | Export-JUnitReport -Path TestResults.xml
```

This example runs Pester using the Passthru option to retrieve the result-object and
exports it as an JUnit 4-compatible XML-report.

## PARAMETERS

### -Result

Result object from a Pester-run.
This can be retrieved using Invoke-Pester
-Passthru or by using the Run.PassThru configuration-option.

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 1
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByValue)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Path

The path where the XML-report should  to the ou the XML report as string.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 2
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Export-JUnitReport](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Export-JUnitReport)

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Invoke-Pester](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Invoke-Pester)

*This page was automatically generated from comment-based help in [Pester 5.4.0](https://github.com/pester/pester).*
