docs/commands/Get-ShouldOperator.mdx, before:

---
id: Get-ShouldOperator
title: Get-ShouldOperator
description: Help page for the PowerShell Pester "Get-ShouldOperator" command
keywords:
  - PowerShell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

:::note This page was generated using the comment-based help in Pester 5.4.0.
To edit the content of this page, change the corresponding help in the [Pester-repository](https://github.com/pester/pester).
:::

## SYNOPSIS

Display the assertion operators available for use with Should.

## SYNTAX

```powershell
Get-ShouldOperator [-Name <String>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

Get-ShouldOperator returns a list of available Should parameters,
their aliases, and examples to help you craft the tests you need.

Get-ShouldOperator will list all available operators,
including any registered by the user with Add-ShouldOperator.

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
Get-ShouldOperator
```

Return all available Should assertion operators and their aliases.

### EXAMPLE 2

```powershell
Get-ShouldOperator -Name Be
```

Return help examples for the Be assertion operator.
-Name is a dynamic parameter that tab completes all available options.

## PARAMETERS

### -Name

Name or alias of operator

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

Pester uses dynamic parameters to populate Should arguments.

This limits the user's ability to discover the available assertions via
standard PowerShell discovery patterns (like `Get-Help Should -Parameter *`).

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Get-ShouldOperator](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Get-ShouldOperator)

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Should](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Should)

Commit message:

Update text and use info-admonition

docs/commands/Get-ShouldOperator.mdx, after:

---
id: Get-ShouldOperator
title: Get-ShouldOperator
description: Help page for the PowerShell Pester "Get-ShouldOperator" command
keywords:
  - PowerShell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

:::info Generated from Pester 5.4.0 help
To contribute to this page, please update the source in the [Pester-repo](https://github.com/pester/pester).
:::

## SYNOPSIS

Display the assertion operators available for use with Should.

## SYNTAX

```powershell
Get-ShouldOperator [-Name <String>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

Get-ShouldOperator returns a list of available Should parameters,
their aliases, and examples to help you craft the tests you need.

Get-ShouldOperator will list all available operators,
including any registered by the user with Add-ShouldOperator.

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
Get-ShouldOperator
```

Return all available Should assertion operators and their aliases.

### EXAMPLE 2

```powershell
Get-ShouldOperator -Name Be
```

Return help examples for the Be assertion operator.
-Name is a dynamic parameter that tab completes all available options.

## PARAMETERS

### -Name

Name or alias of operator

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

Pester uses dynamic parameters to populate Should arguments.

This limits the user's ability to discover the available assertions via
standard PowerShell discovery patterns (like `Get-Help Should -Parameter *`).

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Get-ShouldOperator](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Get-ShouldOperator)

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Should](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Should)
