docs/commands/InModuleScope.mdx, before:

---
id: InModuleScope
title: InModuleScope
description: Help page for the PowerShell Pester "InModuleScope" command
keywords:
  - PowerShell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

:::info Generated from Pester 5.4.0 help
To contribute to this page, please update the source in the [Pester-repo](https://github.com/pester/pester).
:::

## SYNOPSIS

Allows you to execute parts of a test script within the
scope of a PowerShell script or manifest module.

## SYNTAX

```powershell
InModuleScope [-ModuleName] <String> [-ScriptBlock] <ScriptBlock> [[-Parameters] <Hashtable>]
 [[-ArgumentList] <Object[]>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

By injecting some test code into the scope of a PowerShell
script or manifest module, you can use non-exported functions, aliases
and variables inside that module, to perform unit tests on
its internal implementation.

InModuleScope may be used anywhere inside a Pester script,
either inside or outside a Describe block.

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
# The script module:
function PublicFunction {
    # Does something
}

function PrivateFunction {
    return $true
}

Export-ModuleMember -Function PublicFunction

# The test script:

Import-Module MyModule

InModuleScope MyModule {
    Describe 'Testing MyModule' {
        It 'Tests the Private function' {
            PrivateFunction | Should -Be $true
        }
    }
}
```

Normally you would not be able to access "PrivateFunction" from
the PowerShell session, because the module only exported
"PublicFunction". 
Using InModuleScope allowed this call to
"PrivateFunction" to work successfully.

### EXAMPLE 2

```powershell
# The script module:
function PublicFunction {
    # Does something
}

function PrivateFunction ($MyParam) {
    return $MyParam
}

Export-ModuleMember -Function PublicFunction

# The test script:

Describe 'Testing MyModule' {
    BeforeAll {
        Import-Module MyModule
    }

    It 'passing in parameter' {
        $SomeVar = 123
        InModuleScope 'MyModule' -Parameters @{ MyVar = $SomeVar } {
            $MyVar | Should -Be 123
        }
    }

    It 'accessing whole testcase in module scope' -TestCases @(
        @{ Name = 'Foo'; Bool = $true }
    ) {
        # Passes the whole testcase-dictionary available in $_ to InModuleScope
        InModuleScope 'MyModule' -Parameters $_ {
            $Name | Should -Be 'Foo'
            PrivateFunction -MyParam $Bool | Should -BeTrue
        }
    }
}
```

This example shows two ways of using `-Parameters` to pass variables created in a
testfile into the module scope where the scriptblock provided to InModuleScope is executed.
No variables from the outside are available inside the scriptblock without explicitly passing
them in using `-Parameters` or `-ArgumentList`.

## PARAMETERS

### -ModuleName

The name of the module into which the test code should be
injected.
This module must already be loaded into the current
PowerShell session.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 1
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ScriptBlock

The code to be executed within the script or manifest module.

```yaml
Type: ScriptBlock
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 2
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Parameters

A optional hashtable of parameters to be passed to the scriptblock.
Parameters are automatically made available as variables in the scriptblock.

```yaml
Type: Hashtable
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: 3
Default value: @{}
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ArgumentList

A optional list of arguments to be passed to the scriptblock.

```yaml
Type: Object[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: 4
Default value: @()
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/InModuleScope](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/InModuleScope)

Commit message:

Update text based on review

docs/commands/InModuleScope.mdx, after:

---
id: InModuleScope
title: InModuleScope
description: Help page for the PowerShell Pester "InModuleScope" command
keywords:
  - PowerShell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

:::info This page was generated
Contributions are welcome in [Pester-repo](https://github.com/pester/pester).
:::

## SYNOPSIS

Allows you to execute parts of a test script within the
scope of a PowerShell script or manifest module.

## SYNTAX

```powershell
InModuleScope [-ModuleName] <String> [-ScriptBlock] <ScriptBlock> [[-Parameters] <Hashtable>]
 [[-ArgumentList] <Object[]>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

By injecting some test code into the scope of a PowerShell
script or manifest module, you can use non-exported functions, aliases
and variables inside that module, to perform unit tests on
its internal implementation.

InModuleScope may be used anywhere inside a Pester script,
either inside or outside a Describe block.

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
# The script module:
function PublicFunction {
    # Does something
}

function PrivateFunction {
    return $true
}

Export-ModuleMember -Function PublicFunction

# The test script:

Import-Module MyModule

InModuleScope MyModule {
    Describe 'Testing MyModule' {
        It 'Tests the Private function' {
            PrivateFunction | Should -Be $true
        }
    }
}
```

Normally you would not be able to access "PrivateFunction" from
the PowerShell session, because the module only exported
"PublicFunction". 
Using InModuleScope allowed this call to
"PrivateFunction" to work successfully.

### EXAMPLE 2

```powershell
# The script module:
function PublicFunction {
    # Does something
}

function PrivateFunction ($MyParam) {
    return $MyParam
}

Export-ModuleMember -Function PublicFunction

# The test script:

Describe 'Testing MyModule' {
    BeforeAll {
        Import-Module MyModule
    }

    It 'passing in parameter' {
        $SomeVar = 123
        InModuleScope 'MyModule' -Parameters @{ MyVar = $SomeVar } {
            $MyVar | Should -Be 123
        }
    }

    It 'accessing whole testcase in module scope' -TestCases @(
        @{ Name = 'Foo'; Bool = $true }
    ) {
        # Passes the whole testcase-dictionary available in $_ to InModuleScope
        InModuleScope 'MyModule' -Parameters $_ {
            $Name | Should -Be 'Foo'
            PrivateFunction -MyParam $Bool | Should -BeTrue
        }
    }
}
```

This example shows two ways of using `-Parameters` to pass variables created in a
testfile into the module scope where the scriptblock provided to InModuleScope is executed.
No variables from the outside are available inside the scriptblock without explicitly passing
them in using `-Parameters` or `-ArgumentList`.

## PARAMETERS

### -ModuleName

The name of the module into which the test code should be
injected.
This module must already be loaded into the current
PowerShell session.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 1
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ScriptBlock

The code to be executed within the script or manifest module.

```yaml
Type: ScriptBlock
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 2
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Parameters

A optional hashtable of parameters to be passed to the scriptblock.
Parameters are automatically made available as variables in the scriptblock.

```yaml
Type: Hashtable
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: 3
Default value: @{}
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ArgumentList

A optional list of arguments to be passed to the scriptblock.

```yaml
Type: Object[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: 4
Default value: @()
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/InModuleScope](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/InModuleScope)

*This page was automatically generated from comment-based help in [Pester 5.4.0](https://github.com/pester/pester).*
