docs/commands/Invoke-Pester.mdx, before:

---
id: Invoke-Pester
title: Invoke-Pester
description: Help page for the PowerShell Pester "Invoke-Pester" command
keywords:
  - PowerShell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

:::note This page was generated using the comment-based help in Pester 5.4.0.
To edit the content of this page, change the corresponding help in the [Pester-repository](https://github.com/pester/pester).
:::

## SYNOPSIS

Runs Pester tests

## SYNTAX

### Simple (Default)

```powershell
Invoke-Pester [[-Path] <String[]>] [-ExcludePath <String[]>] [-TagFilter <String[]>]
 [-ExcludeTagFilter <String[]>] [-FullNameFilter <String[]>] [-CI] [-Output <String>] [-PassThru]
 [-Container <ContainerInfo[]>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### Legacy

```powershell
Invoke-Pester [[-Path] <String[]>] [-TagFilter <String[]>] [-ExcludeTagFilter <String[]>]
 [-FullNameFilter <String[]>] [-PassThru] [-EnableExit] [-CodeCoverage <Object[]>]
 [-CodeCoverageOutputFile <String>] [-CodeCoverageOutputFileEncoding <String>]
 [-CodeCoverageOutputFileFormat <String>] [-Strict] [-OutputFile <String>] [-OutputFormat <String>] [-Quiet]
 [-PesterOption <Object>] [-Show <OutputTypes>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### Advanced

```powershell
Invoke-Pester [-Configuration <PesterConfiguration>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

The Invoke-Pester function runs Pester tests, including *.Tests.ps1 files and
Pester tests in PowerShell scripts.

You can run scripts that include Pester tests just as you would any other
Windows PowerShell script, including typing the full path at the command line
and running in a script editing program.
Typically, you use Invoke-Pester to run
all Pester tests in a directory, or to use its many helpful parameters,
including parameters that generate custom objects or XML files.

By default, Invoke-Pester runs all *.Tests.ps1 files in the current directory
and all subdirectories recursively.
You can use its parameters to select tests
by file name, test name, or tag.

To run Pester tests in scripts that take parameter values, use the Script
parameter with a hash table value.

Also, by default, Pester tests write test results to the console host, much like
Write-Host does, but you can use the Show parameter set to None to suppress the host
messages, use the PassThru parameter to generate a custom object
(PSCustomObject) that contains the test results, use the OutputXml and
OutputFormat parameters to write the test results to an XML file, and use the
EnableExit parameter to return an exit code that contains the number of failed
tests.

You can also use the Strict parameter to fail all pending and skipped tests.
This feature is ideal for build systems and other processes that require success
on every test.

To help with test design, Invoke-Pester includes a CodeCoverage parameter that
lists commands, classes, functions, and lines of code that did not run during test
execution and returns the code that ran as a percentage of all tested code.

Invoke-Pester, and the Pester module that exports it, are products of an
open-source project hosted on GitHub.
To view, comment, or contribute to the
repository, see https://github.com/Pester.

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
Invoke-Pester
```

This command runs all *.Tests.ps1 files in the current directory and its subdirectories.

### EXAMPLE 2

```powershell
Invoke-Pester -Path .\Util*
```

This commands runs all *.Tests.ps1 files in subdirectories with names that begin
with 'Util' and their subdirectories.

### EXAMPLE 3

```powershell
$config = [PesterConfiguration]@{
    Should = @{ # <- Should configuration.
        ErrorAction = 'Continue' # <- Always run all Should-assertions in a test
    }
}

Invoke-Pester -Configuration $config
```

This example runs all *.Tests.ps1 files in the current directory and its subdirectories.
It shows how advanced configuration can be used by casting a hashtable to override
default settings, in this case to make Pester run all Should-assertions in a test
even if the first fails.

### EXAMPLE 4

```powershell
$config = [PesterConfiguration]::Default
$config.TestResult.Enabled = $true
Invoke-Pester -Configuration $config
```

This example runs all *.Tests.ps1 files in the current directory and its subdirectories.
It uses advanced configuration to enable testresult-output to file.
Access $config.TestResult
to see other testresult options like  output path and format and their default values.

## PARAMETERS

### -Path

Aliases Script
Specifies one or more paths to files containing tests.
The value is a path\file
name or name pattern.
Wildcards are permitted.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: Simple, Legacy
Aliases: Script

Required: False
Position: 1
Default value: .
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ExcludePath

(Deprecated v4)
Replace with ConfigurationProperty Run.ExcludePath

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: Simple
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: @()
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -TagFilter

(Deprecated v4)
Aliases Tag, Tags
Replace with ConfigurationProperty Filter.Tag

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: Simple, Legacy
Aliases: Tags, Tag

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ExcludeTagFilter

(Deprecated v4)
Replace with ConfigurationProperty Filter.ExcludeTag

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: Simple, Legacy
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -FullNameFilter

(Deprecated v4)
Replace with ConfigurationProperty Filter.FullName

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: Simple, Legacy
Aliases: Name

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -CI

(Introduced v5)
Enable Test Results and Exit after Run.

Replace with ConfigurationProperty
    TestResult.Enabled = $true
    Run.Exit = $true

Since 5.2.0, this option no longer enables CodeCoverage.
To also enable CodeCoverage use this configuration option:
    CodeCoverage.Enabled = $true

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Simple
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Output

(Deprecated v4)
Replace with ConfigurationProperty Output.Verbosity
Supports Diagnostic, Detailed, Normal, Minimal, None

Default value is: Normal

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: Simple
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: Normal
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -PassThru

Replace with ConfigurationProperty Run.PassThru
Returns a custom object (PSCustomObject) that contains the test results.
By default, Invoke-Pester writes to the host program, not to the output stream (stdout).
If you try to save the result in a variable, the variable is empty unless you
use the PassThru parameter.
To suppress the host output, use the Show parameter set to None.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Simple, Legacy
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Container

Specifies one or more ContainerInfo-objects that define containers with tests.
ContainerInfo-objects are generated using New-PesterContainer.
Useful for
scenarios where data-driven test are generated, e.g.
parametrized test files.

```yaml
Type: ContainerInfo[]
Parameter Sets: Simple
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Configuration

(Introduced v5)
[PesterConfiguration] object for Advanced Configuration

Pester supports Simple and Advanced Configuration.

Invoke-Pester -Configuration &lt;PesterConfiguration&gt; [&lt;CommonParameters&gt;]

Default is New-PesterConfiguration.

For help on each option see New-PesterConfiguration, or inspect the object it returns.

```yaml
Type: PesterConfiguration
Parameter Sets: Advanced
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -EnableExit

(Deprecated v4)
Replace with ConfigurationProperty Run.Exit
Will cause Invoke-Pester to exit with a exit code equal to the number of failed
tests once all tests have been run.
Use this to "fail" a build when any tests fail.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Legacy
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: 3
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -CodeCoverage

(Deprecated v4)
Replace with ConfigurationProperty CodeCoverage.Enabled = $true
Adds a code coverage report to the Pester tests.
Takes strings or hash table values.
A code coverage report lists the lines of code that did and did not run during
a Pester test.
This report does not tell whether code was tested; only whether
the code ran during the test.
By default, the code coverage report is written to the host program
(like Write-Host).
When you use the PassThru parameter, the custom object
that Invoke-Pester returns has an additional CodeCoverage property that contains
a custom object with detailed results of the code coverage test, including lines
hit, lines missed, and helpful statistics.
However, NUnitXml and JUnitXml output (OutputXML, OutputFormat) do not include
any code coverage information, because it's not supported by the schema.
Enter the path to the files of code under test (not the test file).
Wildcard characters are supported.
If you omit the path, the default is local
directory, not the directory specified by the Script parameter.
Pester test files
are by default excluded from code coverage when a directory is provided.
When you
provide a test file directly using string, code coverage will be measured.
To include
tests in code coverage of a directory, use the dictionary syntax and provide
IncludeTests = $true option, as shown below.
To run a code coverage test only on selected classes, functions or lines in a script,
enter a hash table value with the following keys:
-- Path (P)(mandatory) &lt;string&gt;: Enter one path to the files.
Wildcard characters
are supported, but only one string is permitted.
-- IncludeTests &lt;bool&gt;: Includes code coverage for Pester test files (*.tests.ps1).
Default is false.
One of the following: Class/Function or StartLine/EndLine
-- Class (C) &lt;string&gt;: Enter the class name.
Wildcard characters are
supported, but only one string is permitted.
Default is *.
-- Function (F) &lt;string&gt;: Enter the function name.
Wildcard characters are
supported, but only one string is permitted.
Default is *.
-or-
-- StartLine (S): Performs code coverage analysis beginning with the specified
line.
Default is line 1.
-- EndLine (E): Performs code coverage analysis ending with the specified line.
Default is the last line of the script.

```yaml
Type: Object[]
Parameter Sets: Legacy
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: @()
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -CodeCoverageOutputFile

(Deprecated v4)
Replace with ConfigurationProperty CodeCoverage.OutputPath
The path where Invoke-Pester will save formatted code coverage results file.
The path must include the location and name of the folder and file name with
a required extension (usually the xml).
If this path is not provided, no file will be generated.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: Legacy
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -CodeCoverageOutputFileEncoding

(Deprecated v4)
Replace with ConfigurationProperty CodeCoverage.OutputEncoding
Sets the output encoding of CodeCoverageOutputFileFormat
Default is utf8

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: Legacy
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: Utf8
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -CodeCoverageOutputFileFormat

(Deprecated v4)
Replace with ConfigurationProperty CodeCoverage.OutputFormat
The name of a code coverage report file format.
Default value is: JaCoCo.
Currently supported formats are:
- JaCoCo - this XML file format is compatible with Azure Devops, VSTS/TFS

The ReportGenerator tool can be used to consolidate multiple reports and provide code coverage reporting.
https://github.com/danielpalme/ReportGenerator

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: Legacy
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: JaCoCo
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Strict

(Deprecated v4)
Makes Pending and Skipped tests to Failed tests.
Useful for continuous
integration where you need to make sure all tests passed.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Legacy
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -OutputFile

(Deprecated v4)
Replace with ConfigurationProperty TestResult.OutputPath
The path where Invoke-Pester will save formatted test results log file.
The path must include the location and name of the folder and file name with
the xml extension.
If this path is not provided, no log will be generated.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: Legacy
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -OutputFormat

(Deprecated v4)
Replace with ConfigurationProperty TestResult.OutputFormat
The format of output.
Currently NUnitXml and JUnitXml is supported.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: Legacy
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: NUnitXml
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Quiet

(Deprecated v4)
The parameter Quiet is deprecated since Pester v4.0 and will be deleted
in the next major version of Pester.
Please use the parameter Show
with value 'None' instead.
The parameter Quiet suppresses the output that Pester writes to the host program,
including the result summary and CodeCoverage output.
This parameter does not affect the PassThru custom object or the XML output that
is written when you use the Output parameters.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Legacy
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -PesterOption

(Deprecated v4)
This parameter is ignored in v5, and is only present for backwards compatibility
when migrating from v4.

Sets advanced options for the test execution.
Enter a PesterOption object,
such as one that you create by using the New-PesterOption cmdlet, or a hash table
in which the keys are option names and the values are option values.
For more information on the options available, see the help for New-PesterOption.

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: Legacy
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Show

(Deprecated v4)
Replace with ConfigurationProperty Output.Verbosity
Customizes the output Pester writes to the screen.
Available options are None, Default,
Passed, Failed, Pending, Skipped, Inconclusive, Describe, Context, Summary, Header, All, Fails.
The options can be combined to define presets.
ConfigurationProperty Output.Verbosity supports the following values:
None
Minimal
Normal
Detailed
Diagnostic

Show parameter supports the following parameter values:
None - (None) to write no output to the screen.
All - (Detailed) to write all available information (this is default option).
Default - (Detailed)
Detailed - (Detailed)
Fails - (Normal) to write everything except Passed (but including Describes etc.).
Diagnostic - (Diagnostic)
Normal - (Normal)
Minimal - (Minimal)

A common setting is also Failed, Summary, to write only failed tests and test summary.
This parameter does not affect the PassThru custom object or the XML output that
is written when you use the Output parameters.

```yaml
Type: OutputTypes
Parameter Sets: Legacy
Aliases:
Accepted values: None, Default, Passed, Failed, Pending, Skipped, Inconclusive, Describe, Context, Summary, Header, Fails, All

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: All
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Invoke-Pester](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Invoke-Pester)

[https://pester.dev/docs/quick-start](https://pester.dev/docs/quick-start)

Commit message:

Update text and use info-admonition

docs/commands/Invoke-Pester.mdx, after:

---
id: Invoke-Pester
title: Invoke-Pester
description: Help page for the PowerShell Pester "Invoke-Pester" command
keywords:
  - PowerShell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

:::info Generated from Pester 5.4.0 help
To contribute to this page, please update the source in the [Pester-repo](https://github.com/pester/pester).
:::

## SYNOPSIS

Runs Pester tests

## SYNTAX

### Simple (Default)

```powershell
Invoke-Pester [[-Path] <String[]>] [-ExcludePath <String[]>] [-TagFilter <String[]>]
 [-ExcludeTagFilter <String[]>] [-FullNameFilter <String[]>] [-CI] [-Output <String>] [-PassThru]
 [-Container <ContainerInfo[]>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### Legacy

```powershell
Invoke-Pester [[-Path] <String[]>] [-TagFilter <String[]>] [-ExcludeTagFilter <String[]>]
 [-FullNameFilter <String[]>] [-PassThru] [-EnableExit] [-CodeCoverage <Object[]>]
 [-CodeCoverageOutputFile <String>] [-CodeCoverageOutputFileEncoding <String>]
 [-CodeCoverageOutputFileFormat <String>] [-Strict] [-OutputFile <String>] [-OutputFormat <String>] [-Quiet]
 [-PesterOption <Object>] [-Show <OutputTypes>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### Advanced

```powershell
Invoke-Pester [-Configuration <PesterConfiguration>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

The Invoke-Pester function runs Pester tests, including *.Tests.ps1 files and
Pester tests in PowerShell scripts.

You can run scripts that include Pester tests just as you would any other
Windows PowerShell script, including typing the full path at the command line
and running in a script editing program.
Typically, you use Invoke-Pester to run
all Pester tests in a directory, or to use its many helpful parameters,
including parameters that generate custom objects or XML files.

By default, Invoke-Pester runs all *.Tests.ps1 files in the current directory
and all subdirectories recursively.
You can use its parameters to select tests
by file name, test name, or tag.

To run Pester tests in scripts that take parameter values, use the Script
parameter with a hash table value.

Also, by default, Pester tests write test results to the console host, much like
Write-Host does, but you can use the Show parameter set to None to suppress the host
messages, use the PassThru parameter to generate a custom object
(PSCustomObject) that contains the test results, use the OutputXml and
OutputFormat parameters to write the test results to an XML file, and use the
EnableExit parameter to return an exit code that contains the number of failed
tests.

You can also use the Strict parameter to fail all pending and skipped tests.
This feature is ideal for build systems and other processes that require success
on every test.

To help with test design, Invoke-Pester includes a CodeCoverage parameter that
lists commands, classes, functions, and lines of code that did not run during test
execution and returns the code that ran as a percentage of all tested code.

Invoke-Pester, and the Pester module that exports it, are products of an
open-source project hosted on GitHub.
To view, comment, or contribute to the
repository, see https://github.com/Pester.

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
Invoke-Pester
```

This command runs all *.Tests.ps1 files in the current directory and its subdirectories.

### EXAMPLE 2

```powershell
Invoke-Pester -Path .\Util*
```

This commands runs all *.Tests.ps1 files in subdirectories with names that begin
with 'Util' and their subdirectories.

### EXAMPLE 3

```powershell
$config = [PesterConfiguration]@{
    Should = @{ # <- Should configuration.
        ErrorAction = 'Continue' # <- Always run all Should-assertions in a test
    }
}

Invoke-Pester -Configuration $config
```

This example runs all *.Tests.ps1 files in the current directory and its subdirectories.
It shows how advanced configuration can be used by casting a hashtable to override
default settings, in this case to make Pester run all Should-assertions in a test
even if the first fails.

### EXAMPLE 4

```powershell
$config = [PesterConfiguration]::Default
$config.TestResult.Enabled = $true
Invoke-Pester -Configuration $config
```

This example runs all *.Tests.ps1 files in the current directory and its subdirectories.
It uses advanced configuration to enable testresult-output to file.
Access $config.TestResult
to see other testresult options like  output path and format and their default values.

## PARAMETERS

### -Path

Aliases Script
Specifies one or more paths to files containing tests.
The value is a path\file
name or name pattern.
Wildcards are permitted.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: Simple, Legacy
Aliases: Script

Required: False
Position: 1
Default value: .
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ExcludePath

(Deprecated v4)
Replace with ConfigurationProperty Run.ExcludePath

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: Simple
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: @()
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -TagFilter

(Deprecated v4)
Aliases Tag, Tags
Replace with ConfigurationProperty Filter.Tag

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: Simple, Legacy
Aliases: Tags, Tag

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ExcludeTagFilter

(Deprecated v4)
Replace with ConfigurationProperty Filter.ExcludeTag

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: Simple, Legacy
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -FullNameFilter

(Deprecated v4)
Replace with ConfigurationProperty Filter.FullName

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: Simple, Legacy
Aliases: Name

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -CI

(Introduced v5)
Enable Test Results and Exit after Run.

Replace with ConfigurationProperty
    TestResult.Enabled = $true
    Run.Exit = $true

Since 5.2.0, this option no longer enables CodeCoverage.
To also enable CodeCoverage use this configuration option:
    CodeCoverage.Enabled = $true

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Simple
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Output

(Deprecated v4)
Replace with ConfigurationProperty Output.Verbosity
Supports Diagnostic, Detailed, Normal, Minimal, None

Default value is: Normal

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: Simple
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: Normal
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -PassThru

Replace with ConfigurationProperty Run.PassThru
Returns a custom object (PSCustomObject) that contains the test results.
By default, Invoke-Pester writes to the host program, not to the output stream (stdout).
If you try to save the result in a variable, the variable is empty unless you
use the PassThru parameter.
To suppress the host output, use the Show parameter set to None.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Simple, Legacy
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Container

Specifies one or more ContainerInfo-objects that define containers with tests.
ContainerInfo-objects are generated using New-PesterContainer.
Useful for
scenarios where data-driven test are generated, e.g.
parametrized test files.

```yaml
Type: ContainerInfo[]
Parameter Sets: Simple
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Configuration

(Introduced v5)
[PesterConfiguration] object for Advanced Configuration

Pester supports Simple and Advanced Configuration.

Invoke-Pester -Configuration &lt;PesterConfiguration&gt; [&lt;CommonParameters&gt;]

Default is New-PesterConfiguration.

For help on each option see New-PesterConfiguration, or inspect the object it returns.

```yaml
Type: PesterConfiguration
Parameter Sets: Advanced
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -EnableExit

(Deprecated v4)
Replace with ConfigurationProperty Run.Exit
Will cause Invoke-Pester to exit with a exit code equal to the number of failed
tests once all tests have been run.
Use this to "fail" a build when any tests fail.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Legacy
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: 3
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -CodeCoverage

(Deprecated v4)
Replace with ConfigurationProperty CodeCoverage.Enabled = $true
Adds a code coverage report to the Pester tests.
Takes strings or hash table values.
A code coverage report lists the lines of code that did and did not run during
a Pester test.
This report does not tell whether code was tested; only whether
the code ran during the test.
By default, the code coverage report is written to the host program
(like Write-Host).
When you use the PassThru parameter, the custom object
that Invoke-Pester returns has an additional CodeCoverage property that contains
a custom object with detailed results of the code coverage test, including lines
hit, lines missed, and helpful statistics.
However, NUnitXml and JUnitXml output (OutputXML, OutputFormat) do not include
any code coverage information, because it's not supported by the schema.
Enter the path to the files of code under test (not the test file).
Wildcard characters are supported.
If you omit the path, the default is local
directory, not the directory specified by the Script parameter.
Pester test files
are by default excluded from code coverage when a directory is provided.
When you
provide a test file directly using string, code coverage will be measured.
To include
tests in code coverage of a directory, use the dictionary syntax and provide
IncludeTests = $true option, as shown below.
To run a code coverage test only on selected classes, functions or lines in a script,
enter a hash table value with the following keys:
-- Path (P)(mandatory) &lt;string&gt;: Enter one path to the files.
Wildcard characters
are supported, but only one string is permitted.
-- IncludeTests &lt;bool&gt;: Includes code coverage for Pester test files (*.tests.ps1).
Default is false.
One of the following: Class/Function or StartLine/EndLine
-- Class (C) &lt;string&gt;: Enter the class name.
Wildcard characters are
supported, but only one string is permitted.
Default is *.
-- Function (F) &lt;string&gt;: Enter the function name.
Wildcard characters are
supported, but only one string is permitted.
Default is *.
-or-
-- StartLine (S): Performs code coverage analysis beginning with the specified
line.
Default is line 1.
-- EndLine (E): Performs code coverage analysis ending with the specified line.
Default is the last line of the script.

```yaml
Type: Object[]
Parameter Sets: Legacy
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: @()
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -CodeCoverageOutputFile

(Deprecated v4)
Replace with ConfigurationProperty CodeCoverage.OutputPath
The path where Invoke-Pester will save formatted code coverage results file.
The path must include the location and name of the folder and file name with
a required extension (usually the xml).
If this path is not provided, no file will be generated.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: Legacy
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -CodeCoverageOutputFileEncoding

(Deprecated v4)
Replace with ConfigurationProperty CodeCoverage.OutputEncoding
Sets the output encoding of CodeCoverageOutputFileFormat
Default is utf8

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: Legacy
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: Utf8
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -CodeCoverageOutputFileFormat

(Deprecated v4)
Replace with ConfigurationProperty CodeCoverage.OutputFormat
The name of a code coverage report file format.
Default value is: JaCoCo.
Currently supported formats are:
- JaCoCo - this XML file format is compatible with Azure Devops, VSTS/TFS

The ReportGenerator tool can be used to consolidate multiple reports and provide code coverage reporting.
https://github.com/danielpalme/ReportGenerator

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: Legacy
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: JaCoCo
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Strict

(Deprecated v4)
Makes Pending and Skipped tests to Failed tests.
Useful for continuous
integration where you need to make sure all tests passed.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Legacy
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -OutputFile

(Deprecated v4)
Replace with ConfigurationProperty TestResult.OutputPath
The path where Invoke-Pester will save formatted test results log file.
The path must include the location and name of the folder and file name with
the xml extension.
If this path is not provided, no log will be generated.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: Legacy
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -OutputFormat

(Deprecated v4)
Replace with ConfigurationProperty TestResult.OutputFormat
The format of output.
Currently NUnitXml and JUnitXml is supported.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: Legacy
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: NUnitXml
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Quiet

(Deprecated v4)
The parameter Quiet is deprecated since Pester v4.0 and will be deleted
in the next major version of Pester.
Please use the parameter Show
with value 'None' instead.
The parameter Quiet suppresses the output that Pester writes to the host program,
including the result summary and CodeCoverage output.
This parameter does not affect the PassThru custom object or the XML output that
is written when you use the Output parameters.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Legacy
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -PesterOption

(Deprecated v4)
This parameter is ignored in v5, and is only present for backwards compatibility
when migrating from v4.

Sets advanced options for the test execution.
Enter a PesterOption object,
such as one that you create by using the New-PesterOption cmdlet, or a hash table
in which the keys are option names and the values are option values.
For more information on the options available, see the help for New-PesterOption.

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: Legacy
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Show

(Deprecated v4)
Replace with ConfigurationProperty Output.Verbosity
Customizes the output Pester writes to the screen.
Available options are None, Default,
Passed, Failed, Pending, Skipped, Inconclusive, Describe, Context, Summary, Header, All, Fails.
The options can be combined to define presets.
ConfigurationProperty Output.Verbosity supports the following values:
None
Minimal
Normal
Detailed
Diagnostic

Show parameter supports the following parameter values:
None - (None) to write no output to the screen.
All - (Detailed) to write all available information (this is default option).
Default - (Detailed)
Detailed - (Detailed)
Fails - (Normal) to write everything except Passed (but including Describes etc.).
Diagnostic - (Diagnostic)
Normal - (Normal)
Minimal - (Minimal)

A common setting is also Failed, Summary, to write only failed tests and test summary.
This parameter does not affect the PassThru custom object or the XML output that
is written when you use the Output parameters.

```yaml
Type: OutputTypes
Parameter Sets: Legacy
Aliases:
Accepted values: None, Default, Passed, Failed, Pending, Skipped, Inconclusive, Describe, Context, Summary, Header, Fails, All

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: All
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Invoke-Pester](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Invoke-Pester)

[https://pester.dev/docs/quick-start](https://pester.dev/docs/quick-start)
