docs/commands/It.mdx, before:

---
id: It
title: It
description: Help page for the PowerShell Pester "It" command
keywords:
  - PowerShell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

:::note This page was generated using the comment-based help in Pester 5.4.0.
To edit the content of this page, change the corresponding help in the [Pester-repository](https://github.com/pester/pester).
:::

## SYNOPSIS

Validates the results of a test inside of a Describe block.

## SYNTAX

### Normal (Default)

```powershell
It [-Name] <String> [[-Test] <ScriptBlock>] [-TestCases <Object[]>] [-Tag <String[]>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### Pending

```powershell
It [-Name] <String> [[-Test] <ScriptBlock>] [-TestCases <Object[]>] [-Tag <String[]>] [-Pending]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### Skip

```powershell
It [-Name] <String> [[-Test] <ScriptBlock>] [-TestCases <Object[]>] [-Tag <String[]>] [-Skip]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

The It command is intended to be used inside of a Describe or Context Block.
If you are familiar with the AAA pattern (Arrange-Act-Assert), the body of
the It block is the appropriate location for an assert.
The convention is to
assert a single expectation for each It block.
The code inside of the It block
should throw a terminating error if the expectation of the test is not met and
thus cause the test to fail.
The name of the It block should expressively state
the expectation of the test.

In addition to using your own logic to test expectations and throw exceptions,
you may also use Pester's Should command to perform assertions in plain language.

You can intentionally mark It block result as inconclusive by using Set-TestInconclusive
command as the first tested statement in the It block.

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
BeforeAll {
    function Add-Numbers($a, $b) {
        return $a + $b
    }
}

Describe "Add-Numbers" {
    It "adds positive numbers" {
        $sum = Add-Numbers 2 3
        $sum | Should -Be 5
    }

    It "adds negative numbers" {
        $sum = Add-Numbers (-2) (-2)
        $sum | Should -Be (-4)
    }

    It "adds one negative number to positive number" {
        $sum = Add-Numbers (-2) 2
        $sum | Should -Be 0
    }

    It "concatenates strings if given strings" {
        $sum = Add-Numbers two three
        $sum | Should -Be "twothree"
    }
}
```

Example of a simple Pester file.
It-blocks are used to define the different tests.

### EXAMPLE 2

```powershell
function Add-Numbers($a, $b) {
    return $a + $b
}

Describe "Add-Numbers" {
    $testCases = @(
        @{ a = 2;     b = 3;       expectedResult = 5 }
        @{ a = -2;    b = -2;      expectedResult = -4 }
        @{ a = -2;    b = 2;       expectedResult = 0 }
        @{ a = 'two'; b = 'three'; expectedResult = 'twothree' }
    )

    It 'Correctly adds <a> and <b> to get <expectedResult>' -TestCases $testCases {
        $sum = Add-Numbers $a $b
        $sum | Should -Be $expectedResult
    }
}
```

Using It with -TestCases to run the same tests with different parameters and expected results.
Each hashtable in the `$testCases`-array generates one tests to a total of four.
Each key-value pair in the
current hashtable are made available as variables inside It.

## PARAMETERS

### -Name

An expressive phrase describing the expected test outcome.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 1
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Test

The script block that should throw an exception if the
expectation of the test is not met.If you are following the
AAA pattern (Arrange-Act-Assert), this typically holds the
Assert.

```yaml
Type: ScriptBlock
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: 2
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -TestCases

Optional array of hashtable (or any IDictionary) objects. 
If this parameter is used,
Pester will call the test script block once for each table in the TestCases array,
splatting the dictionary to the test script block as input. 
If you want the name of
the test to appear differently for each test case, you can embed tokens into the Name
parameter with the syntax 'Adds numbers &lt;A&gt; and &lt;B&gt;' (assuming you have keys named A and B
in your TestCases hashtables.)

```yaml
Type: Object[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: ForEach

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Tag

Optional parameter containing an array of strings.
When calling Invoke-Pester,
it is possible to include or exclude tests containing the same Tag.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Pending

Use this parameter to explicitly mark the test as work-in-progress/not implemented/pending when you
need to distinguish a test that fails because it is not finished yet from a tests
that fail as a result of changes being made in the code base.
An empty test, that is a
test that contains nothing except whitespace or comments is marked as Pending by default.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Pending
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Skip

Use this parameter to explicitly mark the test to be skipped.
This is preferable to temporarily
commenting out a test, because the test remains listed in the output.
Use the Strict parameter
of Invoke-Pester to force all skipped tests to fail.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Skip
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/It](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/It)

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Describe](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Describe)

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Context](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Context)

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Set-ItResult](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Set-ItResult)

Commit message:

Update text and use info-admonition

docs/commands/It.mdx, after:

---
id: It
title: It
description: Help page for the PowerShell Pester "It" command
keywords:
  - PowerShell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

:::info Generated from Pester 5.4.0 help
To contribute to this page, please update the source in the [Pester-repo](https://github.com/pester/pester).
:::

## SYNOPSIS

Validates the results of a test inside of a Describe block.

## SYNTAX

### Normal (Default)

```powershell
It [-Name] <String> [[-Test] <ScriptBlock>] [-TestCases <Object[]>] [-Tag <String[]>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### Pending

```powershell
It [-Name] <String> [[-Test] <ScriptBlock>] [-TestCases <Object[]>] [-Tag <String[]>] [-Pending]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### Skip

```powershell
It [-Name] <String> [[-Test] <ScriptBlock>] [-TestCases <Object[]>] [-Tag <String[]>] [-Skip]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

The It command is intended to be used inside of a Describe or Context Block.
If you are familiar with the AAA pattern (Arrange-Act-Assert), the body of
the It block is the appropriate location for an assert.
The convention is to
assert a single expectation for each It block.
The code inside of the It block
should throw a terminating error if the expectation of the test is not met and
thus cause the test to fail.
The name of the It block should expressively state
the expectation of the test.

In addition to using your own logic to test expectations and throw exceptions,
you may also use Pester's Should command to perform assertions in plain language.

You can intentionally mark It block result as inconclusive by using Set-TestInconclusive
command as the first tested statement in the It block.

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
BeforeAll {
    function Add-Numbers($a, $b) {
        return $a + $b
    }
}

Describe "Add-Numbers" {
    It "adds positive numbers" {
        $sum = Add-Numbers 2 3
        $sum | Should -Be 5
    }

    It "adds negative numbers" {
        $sum = Add-Numbers (-2) (-2)
        $sum | Should -Be (-4)
    }

    It "adds one negative number to positive number" {
        $sum = Add-Numbers (-2) 2
        $sum | Should -Be 0
    }

    It "concatenates strings if given strings" {
        $sum = Add-Numbers two three
        $sum | Should -Be "twothree"
    }
}
```

Example of a simple Pester file.
It-blocks are used to define the different tests.

### EXAMPLE 2

```powershell
function Add-Numbers($a, $b) {
    return $a + $b
}

Describe "Add-Numbers" {
    $testCases = @(
        @{ a = 2;     b = 3;       expectedResult = 5 }
        @{ a = -2;    b = -2;      expectedResult = -4 }
        @{ a = -2;    b = 2;       expectedResult = 0 }
        @{ a = 'two'; b = 'three'; expectedResult = 'twothree' }
    )

    It 'Correctly adds <a> and <b> to get <expectedResult>' -TestCases $testCases {
        $sum = Add-Numbers $a $b
        $sum | Should -Be $expectedResult
    }
}
```

Using It with -TestCases to run the same tests with different parameters and expected results.
Each hashtable in the `$testCases`-array generates one tests to a total of four.
Each key-value pair in the
current hashtable are made available as variables inside It.

## PARAMETERS

### -Name

An expressive phrase describing the expected test outcome.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 1
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Test

The script block that should throw an exception if the
expectation of the test is not met.If you are following the
AAA pattern (Arrange-Act-Assert), this typically holds the
Assert.

```yaml
Type: ScriptBlock
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: 2
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -TestCases

Optional array of hashtable (or any IDictionary) objects. 
If this parameter is used,
Pester will call the test script block once for each table in the TestCases array,
splatting the dictionary to the test script block as input. 
If you want the name of
the test to appear differently for each test case, you can embed tokens into the Name
parameter with the syntax 'Adds numbers &lt;A&gt; and &lt;B&gt;' (assuming you have keys named A and B
in your TestCases hashtables.)

```yaml
Type: Object[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: ForEach

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Tag

Optional parameter containing an array of strings.
When calling Invoke-Pester,
it is possible to include or exclude tests containing the same Tag.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Pending

Use this parameter to explicitly mark the test as work-in-progress/not implemented/pending when you
need to distinguish a test that fails because it is not finished yet from a tests
that fail as a result of changes being made in the code base.
An empty test, that is a
test that contains nothing except whitespace or comments is marked as Pending by default.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Pending
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Skip

Use this parameter to explicitly mark the test to be skipped.
This is preferable to temporarily
commenting out a test, because the test remains listed in the output.
Use the Strict parameter
of Invoke-Pester to force all skipped tests to fail.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Skip
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/It](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/It)

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Describe](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Describe)

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Context](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Context)

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Set-ItResult](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Set-ItResult)
