docs/commands/New-MockObject.mdx, before:

---
id: New-MockObject
title: New-MockObject
description: Help page for the PowerShell Pester "New-MockObject" command
keywords:
  - PowerShell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

:::note This page was generated using the comment-based help in Pester 5.4.0.
To edit the content of this page, change the corresponding help in the [Pester-repository](https://github.com/pester/pester).
:::

## SYNOPSIS

This function instantiates a .NET object from a type.

## SYNTAX

### Type (Default)

```powershell
New-MockObject [-Type] <Type> [-Properties <Hashtable>] [-Methods <Hashtable>] [-MethodHistoryPrefix <String>]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### InputObject

```powershell
New-MockObject -InputObject <Object> [-Properties <Hashtable>] [-Methods <Hashtable>]
 [-MethodHistoryPrefix <String>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

Using the New-MockObject you can mock an object based on .NET type.

An .NET assembly for the particular type must be available in the system and loaded.

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
$obj = New-MockObject -Type 'System.Diagnostics.Process'
$obj.GetType().FullName
    System.Diagnostics.Process
```

Creates a mock of a process-object with default property-values.

### EXAMPLE 2

```powershell
$obj = New-MockObject -Type 'System.Diagnostics.Process' -Properties @{ Id = 123 }
```

Create a mock of a process-object with the Id-property specified.

### EXAMPLE 3

```powershell
$obj = New-MockObject -Type 'System.Diagnostics.Process' -Methods @{ Kill = { param($entireProcessTree) "killed" } }
$obj.Kill()
$obj.Kill($true)
$obj.Kill($false)

$obj._Kill

Call Arguments
---- ---------
1 {}
2 {True}
3 {False}
```

Create a mock of a process-object and mocks the object's Kill()-method.
The mocked method will keep a history
of any call and the associated arguments in a key named &lt;_&lt;MethodName

## PARAMETERS

### -Type

The .NET type to create.
This creates the object without calling any of its constructors or initializers.
Use this to instantiate an object that does not have a public constructor.
If your object has a constructor, or is giving you errors, try using the constructor and provide the object using the InputObject parameter to decorate it.

```yaml
Type: Type
Parameter Sets: Type
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 1
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -InputObject

An already constructed object to decorate.
Use New-Object or ::new to create it.

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: InputObject
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Properties

Properties to define, specified as a hashtable, in format @{ PropertyName = value }.

```yaml
Type: Hashtable
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Methods

Methods to define, specified as a hashtable, in format @{ MethodName = scriptBlock }.

ScriptBlock can define param block, and it will receive arguments that were provided to the function call based on order.

Method overloads are not supported because ScriptMethods are used to decorate the object, and ScriptMethods do not support method overloads.

For each method a property named _MethodName (if using default -MethodHistoryPrefix) is defined which holds history of the invocations of the method and the arguments that were provided.

```yaml
Type: Hashtable
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -MethodHistoryPrefix

Prefix for the history-property created for each mocked method.
Default is '_' which would create the property ' _MethodName'.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: _
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/New-MockObject](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/New-MockObject)

[https://pester.dev/docs/usage/mocking](https://pester.dev/docs/usage/mocking)

Commit message:

Update text and use info-admonition

docs/commands/New-MockObject.mdx, after:

---
id: New-MockObject
title: New-MockObject
description: Help page for the PowerShell Pester "New-MockObject" command
keywords:
  - PowerShell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

:::info Generated from Pester 5.4.0 help
To contribute to this page, please update the source in the [Pester-repo](https://github.com/pester/pester).
:::

## SYNOPSIS

This function instantiates a .NET object from a type.

## SYNTAX

### Type (Default)

```powershell
New-MockObject [-Type] <Type> [-Properties <Hashtable>] [-Methods <Hashtable>] [-MethodHistoryPrefix <String>]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### InputObject

```powershell
New-MockObject -InputObject <Object> [-Properties <Hashtable>] [-Methods <Hashtable>]
 [-MethodHistoryPrefix <String>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

Using the New-MockObject you can mock an object based on .NET type.

An .NET assembly for the particular type must be available in the system and loaded.

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
$obj = New-MockObject -Type 'System.Diagnostics.Process'
$obj.GetType().FullName
    System.Diagnostics.Process
```

Creates a mock of a process-object with default property-values.

### EXAMPLE 2

```powershell
$obj = New-MockObject -Type 'System.Diagnostics.Process' -Properties @{ Id = 123 }
```

Create a mock of a process-object with the Id-property specified.

### EXAMPLE 3

```powershell
$obj = New-MockObject -Type 'System.Diagnostics.Process' -Methods @{ Kill = { param($entireProcessTree) "killed" } }
$obj.Kill()
$obj.Kill($true)
$obj.Kill($false)

$obj._Kill

Call Arguments
---- ---------
1 {}
2 {True}
3 {False}
```

Create a mock of a process-object and mocks the object's Kill()-method.
The mocked method will keep a history
of any call and the associated arguments in a key named &lt;_&lt;MethodName

## PARAMETERS

### -Type

The .NET type to create.
This creates the object without calling any of its constructors or initializers.
Use this to instantiate an object that does not have a public constructor.
If your object has a constructor, or is giving you errors, try using the constructor and provide the object using the InputObject parameter to decorate it.

```yaml
Type: Type
Parameter Sets: Type
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 1
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -InputObject

An already constructed object to decorate.
Use New-Object or ::new to create it.

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: InputObject
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Properties

Properties to define, specified as a hashtable, in format @{ PropertyName = value }.

```yaml
Type: Hashtable
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Methods

Methods to define, specified as a hashtable, in format @{ MethodName = scriptBlock }.

ScriptBlock can define param block, and it will receive arguments that were provided to the function call based on order.

Method overloads are not supported because ScriptMethods are used to decorate the object, and ScriptMethods do not support method overloads.

For each method a property named _MethodName (if using default -MethodHistoryPrefix) is defined which holds history of the invocations of the method and the arguments that were provided.

```yaml
Type: Hashtable
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -MethodHistoryPrefix

Prefix for the history-property created for each mocked method.
Default is '_' which would create the property ' _MethodName'.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: _
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/New-MockObject](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/New-MockObject)

[https://pester.dev/docs/usage/mocking](https://pester.dev/docs/usage/mocking)
