docs/commands/New-PesterConfiguration.mdx, before:

---
id: New-PesterConfiguration
title: New-PesterConfiguration
description: Help page for the PowerShell Pester "New-PesterConfiguration" command
keywords:
  - PowerShell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

:::note This page was generated using the comment-based help in Pester 5.4.0.
To edit the content of this page, change the corresponding help in the [Pester-repository](https://github.com/pester/pester).
:::

## SYNOPSIS

Creates a new PesterConfiguration object for advanced configuration of Invoke-Pester.

## SYNTAX

```powershell
New-PesterConfiguration [[-Hashtable] <IDictionary>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

The New-PesterConfiguration function creates a new PesterConfiguration-object
to enable advanced configurations for runnings tests using Invoke-Pester.

Without parameters, the function generates a configuration-object with default
options.
The returned PesterConfiguration-object can be modified to suit your
requirements.

Calling New-PesterConfiguration is equivalent to calling [PesterConfiguration]::Default which was used in early versions of Pester 5.

Sections and options:

```
Run:
  Path: Directories to be searched for tests, paths directly to test files, or combination of both.
  Default value: @('.')

  ExcludePath: Directories or files to be excluded from the run.
  Default value: @()

  ScriptBlock: ScriptBlocks containing tests to be executed.
  Default value: @()

  Container: ContainerInfo objects containing tests to be executed.
  Default value: @()

  TestExtension: Filter used to identify test files.
  Default value: '.Tests.ps1'

  Exit: Exit with non-zero exit code when the test run fails.
When used together with Throw, throwing an exception is preferred.
  Default value: $false

  Throw: Throw an exception when test run fails.
When used together with Exit, throwing an exception is preferred.
  Default value: $false

  PassThru: Return result object to the pipeline after finishing the test run.
  Default value: $false

  SkipRun: Runs the discovery phase but skips run.
Use it with PassThru to get object populated with all tests.
  Default value: $false

  SkipRemainingOnFailure: Skips remaining tests after failure for selected scope, options are None, Run, Container and Block.
  Default value: 'None'

Filter:
  Tag: Tags of Describe, Context or It to be run.
  Default value: @()

  ExcludeTag: Tags of Describe, Context or It to be excluded from the run.
  Default value: @()

  Line: Filter by file and scriptblock start line, useful to run parsed tests programmatically to avoid problems with expanded names.
Example: 'C:\tests\file1.Tests.ps1:37'
  Default value: @()

  ExcludeLine: Exclude by file and scriptblock start line, takes precedence over Line.
  Default value: @()

  FullName: Full name of test with -like wildcards, joined by dot.
Example: '*.describe Get-Item.test1'
  Default value: @()

CodeCoverage:
  Enabled: Enable CodeCoverage.
  Default value: $false

  OutputFormat: Format to use for code coverage report.
Possible values: JaCoCo, CoverageGutters
  Default value: 'JaCoCo'

  OutputPath: Path relative to the current directory where code coverage report is saved.
  Default value: 'coverage.xml'

  OutputEncoding: Encoding of the output file.
  Default value: 'UTF8'

  Path: Directories or files to be used for code coverage, by default the Path(s) from general settings are used, unless overridden here.
  Default value: @()

  ExcludeTests: Exclude tests from code coverage.
This uses the TestFilter from general configuration.
  Default value: $true

  RecursePaths: Will recurse through directories in the Path option.
  Default value: $true

  CoveragePercentTarget: Target percent of code coverage that you want to achieve, default 75%.
  Default value: 75

  UseBreakpoints: EXPERIMENTAL: When false, use Profiler based tracer to do CodeCoverage instead of using breakpoints.
  Default value: $true

  SingleHitBreakpoints: Remove breakpoint when it is hit.
  Default value: $true

TestResult:
  Enabled: Enable TestResult.
  Default value: $false

  OutputFormat: Format to use for test result report.
Possible values: NUnitXml, NUnit2.5 or JUnitXml
  Default value: 'NUnitXml'

  OutputPath: Path relative to the current directory where test result report is saved.
  Default value: 'testResults.xml'

  OutputEncoding: Encoding of the output file.
  Default value: 'UTF8'

  TestSuiteName: Set the name assigned to the root 'test-suite' element.
  Default value: 'Pester'

Should:
  ErrorAction: Controls if Should throws on error.
Use 'Stop' to throw on error, or 'Continue' to fail at the end of the test.
  Default value: 'Stop'

Debug:
  ShowFullErrors: Show full errors including Pester internal stack.
This property is deprecated, and if set to true it will override Output.StackTraceVerbosity to 'Full'.
  Default value: $false

  WriteDebugMessages: Write Debug messages to screen.
  Default value: $false

  WriteDebugMessagesFrom: Write Debug messages from a given source, WriteDebugMessages must be set to true for this to work.
You can use like wildcards to get messages from multiple sources, as well as * to get everything.
  Default value: @('Discovery', 'Skip', 'Mock', 'CodeCoverage')

  ShowNavigationMarkers: Write paths after every block and test, for easy navigation in VSCode.
  Default value: $false

  ReturnRawResultObject: Returns unfiltered result object, this is for development only.
Do not rely on this object for additional properties, non-public properties will be renamed without previous notice.
  Default value: $false

Output:
  Verbosity: The verbosity of output, options are None, Normal, Detailed and Diagnostic.
  Default value: 'Normal'

  StackTraceVerbosity: The verbosity of stacktrace output, options are None, FirstLine, Filtered and Full.
  Default value: 'Filtered'

  CIFormat: The CI format of error output in build logs, options are None, Auto, AzureDevops and GithubActions.
  Default value: 'Auto'

  RenderMode: The mode used to render console output, options are Auto, Ansi, ConsoleColor and Plaintext.
  Default value: 'Auto'

TestDrive:
  Enabled: Enable TestDrive.
  Default value: $true

TestRegistry:
  Enabled: Enable TestRegistry.
  Default value: $true
```

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
$config = New-PesterConfiguration
$config.Run.PassThru = $true

Invoke-Pester -Configuration $config
```

Creates a default PesterConfiguration-object and changes the Run.PassThru option
to return the result object after the test run.
The configuration object is
provided to Invoke-Pester to alter the default behaviour.

### EXAMPLE 2

```powershell
$MyOptions = @{
    Run = @{ # Run configuration.
        PassThru = $true # Return result object after finishing the test run.
    }
    Filter = @{ # Filter configuration
        Tag = "Core","Integration" # Run only Describe/Context/It-blocks with 'Core' or 'Integration' tags
    }
}

$config = New-PesterConfiguration -Hashtable $MyOptions

Invoke-Pester -Configuration $config
```

A hashtable is created with custom options and passed to the New-PesterConfiguration to merge
with the default configuration.
The options in the hashtable will override the default values.
The configuration object is then provided to Invoke-Pester to begin the test run using
the new configuration.

## PARAMETERS

### -Hashtable

Override the default values for the options defined in the provided dictionary/hashtable.
See Description in this help or inspect a PesterConfiguration-object to learn about the schema and
available options.

```yaml
Type: IDictionary
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: 1
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/New-PesterConfiguration](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/New-PesterConfiguration)

[https://pester.dev/docs/usage/Configuration](https://pester.dev/docs/usage/Configuration)

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Invoke-Pester](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Invoke-Pester)

Commit message:

Update text and use info-admonition

docs/commands/New-PesterConfiguration.mdx, after:

---
id: New-PesterConfiguration
title: New-PesterConfiguration
description: Help page for the PowerShell Pester "New-PesterConfiguration" command
keywords:
  - PowerShell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

:::info Generated from Pester 5.4.0 help
To contribute to this page, please update the source in the [Pester-repo](https://github.com/pester/pester).
:::

## SYNOPSIS

Creates a new PesterConfiguration object for advanced configuration of Invoke-Pester.

## SYNTAX

```powershell
New-PesterConfiguration [[-Hashtable] <IDictionary>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

The New-PesterConfiguration function creates a new PesterConfiguration-object
to enable advanced configurations for runnings tests using Invoke-Pester.

Without parameters, the function generates a configuration-object with default
options.
The returned PesterConfiguration-object can be modified to suit your
requirements.

Calling New-PesterConfiguration is equivalent to calling [PesterConfiguration]::Default which was used in early versions of Pester 5.

Sections and options:

```
Run:
  Path: Directories to be searched for tests, paths directly to test files, or combination of both.
  Default value: @('.')

  ExcludePath: Directories or files to be excluded from the run.
  Default value: @()

  ScriptBlock: ScriptBlocks containing tests to be executed.
  Default value: @()

  Container: ContainerInfo objects containing tests to be executed.
  Default value: @()

  TestExtension: Filter used to identify test files.
  Default value: '.Tests.ps1'

  Exit: Exit with non-zero exit code when the test run fails.
When used together with Throw, throwing an exception is preferred.
  Default value: $false

  Throw: Throw an exception when test run fails.
When used together with Exit, throwing an exception is preferred.
  Default value: $false

  PassThru: Return result object to the pipeline after finishing the test run.
  Default value: $false

  SkipRun: Runs the discovery phase but skips run.
Use it with PassThru to get object populated with all tests.
  Default value: $false

  SkipRemainingOnFailure: Skips remaining tests after failure for selected scope, options are None, Run, Container and Block.
  Default value: 'None'

Filter:
  Tag: Tags of Describe, Context or It to be run.
  Default value: @()

  ExcludeTag: Tags of Describe, Context or It to be excluded from the run.
  Default value: @()

  Line: Filter by file and scriptblock start line, useful to run parsed tests programmatically to avoid problems with expanded names.
Example: 'C:\tests\file1.Tests.ps1:37'
  Default value: @()

  ExcludeLine: Exclude by file and scriptblock start line, takes precedence over Line.
  Default value: @()

  FullName: Full name of test with -like wildcards, joined by dot.
Example: '*.describe Get-Item.test1'
  Default value: @()

CodeCoverage:
  Enabled: Enable CodeCoverage.
  Default value: $false

  OutputFormat: Format to use for code coverage report.
Possible values: JaCoCo, CoverageGutters
  Default value: 'JaCoCo'

  OutputPath: Path relative to the current directory where code coverage report is saved.
  Default value: 'coverage.xml'

  OutputEncoding: Encoding of the output file.
  Default value: 'UTF8'

  Path: Directories or files to be used for code coverage, by default the Path(s) from general settings are used, unless overridden here.
  Default value: @()

  ExcludeTests: Exclude tests from code coverage.
This uses the TestFilter from general configuration.
  Default value: $true

  RecursePaths: Will recurse through directories in the Path option.
  Default value: $true

  CoveragePercentTarget: Target percent of code coverage that you want to achieve, default 75%.
  Default value: 75

  UseBreakpoints: EXPERIMENTAL: When false, use Profiler based tracer to do CodeCoverage instead of using breakpoints.
  Default value: $true

  SingleHitBreakpoints: Remove breakpoint when it is hit.
  Default value: $true

TestResult:
  Enabled: Enable TestResult.
  Default value: $false

  OutputFormat: Format to use for test result report.
Possible values: NUnitXml, NUnit2.5 or JUnitXml
  Default value: 'NUnitXml'

  OutputPath: Path relative to the current directory where test result report is saved.
  Default value: 'testResults.xml'

  OutputEncoding: Encoding of the output file.
  Default value: 'UTF8'

  TestSuiteName: Set the name assigned to the root 'test-suite' element.
  Default value: 'Pester'

Should:
  ErrorAction: Controls if Should throws on error.
Use 'Stop' to throw on error, or 'Continue' to fail at the end of the test.
  Default value: 'Stop'

Debug:
  ShowFullErrors: Show full errors including Pester internal stack.
This property is deprecated, and if set to true it will override Output.StackTraceVerbosity to 'Full'.
  Default value: $false

  WriteDebugMessages: Write Debug messages to screen.
  Default value: $false

  WriteDebugMessagesFrom: Write Debug messages from a given source, WriteDebugMessages must be set to true for this to work.
You can use like wildcards to get messages from multiple sources, as well as * to get everything.
  Default value: @('Discovery', 'Skip', 'Mock', 'CodeCoverage')

  ShowNavigationMarkers: Write paths after every block and test, for easy navigation in VSCode.
  Default value: $false

  ReturnRawResultObject: Returns unfiltered result object, this is for development only.
Do not rely on this object for additional properties, non-public properties will be renamed without previous notice.
  Default value: $false

Output:
  Verbosity: The verbosity of output, options are None, Normal, Detailed and Diagnostic.
  Default value: 'Normal'

  StackTraceVerbosity: The verbosity of stacktrace output, options are None, FirstLine, Filtered and Full.
  Default value: 'Filtered'

  CIFormat: The CI format of error output in build logs, options are None, Auto, AzureDevops and GithubActions.
  Default value: 'Auto'

  RenderMode: The mode used to render console output, options are Auto, Ansi, ConsoleColor and Plaintext.
  Default value: 'Auto'

TestDrive:
  Enabled: Enable TestDrive.
  Default value: $true

TestRegistry:
  Enabled: Enable TestRegistry.
  Default value: $true
```

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
$config = New-PesterConfiguration
$config.Run.PassThru = $true

Invoke-Pester -Configuration $config
```

Creates a default PesterConfiguration-object and changes the Run.PassThru option
to return the result object after the test run.
The configuration object is
provided to Invoke-Pester to alter the default behaviour.

### EXAMPLE 2

```powershell
$MyOptions = @{
    Run = @{ # Run configuration.
        PassThru = $true # Return result object after finishing the test run.
    }
    Filter = @{ # Filter configuration
        Tag = "Core","Integration" # Run only Describe/Context/It-blocks with 'Core' or 'Integration' tags
    }
}

$config = New-PesterConfiguration -Hashtable $MyOptions

Invoke-Pester -Configuration $config
```

A hashtable is created with custom options and passed to the New-PesterConfiguration to merge
with the default configuration.
The options in the hashtable will override the default values.
The configuration object is then provided to Invoke-Pester to begin the test run using
the new configuration.

## PARAMETERS

### -Hashtable

Override the default values for the options defined in the provided dictionary/hashtable.
See Description in this help or inspect a PesterConfiguration-object to learn about the schema and
available options.

```yaml
Type: IDictionary
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: 1
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/New-PesterConfiguration](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/New-PesterConfiguration)

[https://pester.dev/docs/usage/Configuration](https://pester.dev/docs/usage/Configuration)

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Invoke-Pester](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Invoke-Pester)
