docs/commands/New-PesterContainer.mdx, before:

---
id: New-PesterContainer
title: New-PesterContainer
description: Help page for the Powershell Pester "New-PesterContainer" command
keywords:
  - Powershell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

## SYNOPSIS

Generates ContainerInfo-objects used as for Invoke-Pester -Container

## SYNTAX

### Path (Default)

```powershell
New-PesterContainer -Path <String[]> [-Data <IDictionary[]>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### ScriptBlock

```powershell
New-PesterContainer -ScriptBlock <ScriptBlock[]> [-Data <IDictionary[]>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

Pester 5 supports running tests files and scriptblocks using parameter-input.
To use this feature, Invoke-Pester expects one or more ContainerInfo-objects
created using this function, that specify test containers in the form of paths
to the test files or scriptblocks containing the tests directly.

A optional Data-dictionary can be provided to supply the containers with any
required parameter-values.
This is useful in when tests are generated dynamically
based on parameter-input.
This method enables complex test-solutions while being
able to re-use a lot of test-code.

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
$container = New-PesterContainer -Path 'CodingStyle.Tests.ps1' -Data @{ File = "Get-Emoji.ps1" }
Invoke-Pester -Container $container
```

This example runs Pester using a generated ContainerInfo-object referencing a file and
required parameters that's provided to the test-file during execution.

### EXAMPLE 2

```powershell
$sb = {
    Describe 'Testing New-PesterContainer' {
        It 'Useless test' {
            "foo" | Should -Not -Be "bar"
        }
    }
}
$container = New-PesterContainer -ScriptBlock $sb
Invoke-Pester -Container $container
```

This example runs Pester agianst a scriptblock.
New-PesterContainer is used to genreated
the requried ContainerInfo-object that enables us to do this directly.

## PARAMETERS

### -Path

Specifies one or more paths to files containing tests. The value is a path\file name or name pattern. Wildcards are permitted.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: Path
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ScriptBlock

Specifies one or more scriptblocks containing tests.

```yaml
Type: ScriptBlock[]
Parameter Sets: ScriptBlock
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Data

Allows a dictionary to be provided with parameter-values that should be used during
execution of the test containers defined in Path or ScriptBlock.

```yaml
Type: IDictionary[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/New-PesterContainer](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/New-PesterContainer)

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Invoke-Pester](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Invoke-Pester)

[https://pester.dev/docs/usage/data-driven-tests](https://pester.dev/docs/usage/data-driven-tests)

## EDIT THIS PAGE

This page was auto-generated using the comment based help in Pester 5.2.1. To edit the content of this page, change the corresponding help in the [pester/Pester](https://github.com/pester/pester) repository. See our [contribution guide](https://github.com/pester/docs#contributing) for more information.

Commit message:

Bump command reference and fix PowerShell casing (#212)
* Fix PowerShell casing

* Fix PowerShell casing

* Fix PowerShell casing

* Bumps command reference to 5.3.3 and fixes PowerShell casing

* Fix bug detecting code block comment as markdown header

* Fixes for unwanted extra newlines and incorrect powershell monicker

* Fixed by improved markdown header detection

* Adds fix for incorrect indentation of code blocks with opening curly bracket

docs/commands/New-PesterContainer.mdx, after:

---
id: New-PesterContainer
title: New-PesterContainer
description: Help page for the PowerShell Pester "New-PesterContainer" command
keywords:
  - PowerShell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

## SYNOPSIS

Generates ContainerInfo-objects used as for Invoke-Pester -Container

## SYNTAX

### Path (Default)

```powershell
New-PesterContainer -Path <String[]> [-Data <IDictionary[]>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### ScriptBlock

```powershell
New-PesterContainer -ScriptBlock <ScriptBlock[]> [-Data <IDictionary[]>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

Pester 5 supports running tests files and scriptblocks using parameter-input.
To use this feature, Invoke-Pester expects one or more ContainerInfo-objects
created using this function, that specify test containers in the form of paths
to the test files or scriptblocks containing the tests directly.

A optional Data-dictionary can be provided to supply the containers with any
required parameter-values.
This is useful in when tests are generated dynamically
based on parameter-input.
This method enables complex test-solutions while being
able to re-use a lot of test-code.

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
$container = New-PesterContainer -Path 'CodingStyle.Tests.ps1' -Data @{ File = "Get-Emoji.ps1" }
Invoke-Pester -Container $container
```

This example runs Pester using a generated ContainerInfo-object referencing a file and
required parameters that's provided to the test-file during execution.

### EXAMPLE 2

```powershell
$sb = {
    Describe 'Testing New-PesterContainer' {
        It 'Useless test' {
            "foo" | Should -Not -Be "bar"
        }
    }
}
$container = New-PesterContainer -ScriptBlock $sb
Invoke-Pester -Container $container
```

This example runs Pester against a scriptblock.
New-PesterContainer is used to generate
the required ContainerInfo-object that enables us to do this directly.

## PARAMETERS

### -Path

Specifies one or more paths to files containing tests.
The value is a path\file
name or name pattern.
Wildcards are permitted.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: Path
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ScriptBlock

Specifies one or more scriptblocks containing tests.

```yaml
Type: ScriptBlock[]
Parameter Sets: ScriptBlock
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Data

Allows a dictionary to be provided with parameter-values that should be used during
execution of the test containers defined in Path or ScriptBlock.

```yaml
Type: IDictionary[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/New-PesterContainer](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/New-PesterContainer)

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Invoke-Pester](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Invoke-Pester)

[https://pester.dev/docs/usage/data-driven-tests](https://pester.dev/docs/usage/data-driven-tests)

## EDIT THIS PAGE

This page was auto-generated using the comment based help in Pester 5.3.3. To edit the content of this page, change the corresponding help in the [pester/Pester](https://github.com/pester/pester) repository. See our [contribution guide](https://github.com/pester/docs#contributing) for more information.
