docs/commands/New-Fixture.mdx, before:

---
id: New-Fixture
title: New-Fixture
description: Help page for the Powershell Pester "New-Fixture" command
keywords:
  - Powershell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

## SYNOPSIS

This function generates two scripts, one that defines a function
and another one that contains its tests.

## SYNTAX

```powershell
New-Fixture [-Name] <String> [[-Path] <String>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

This function generates two scripts, one that defines a function
and another one that contains its tests.
The files are by default
placed in the current directory and are called and populated as such:

The script defining the function: .\Clean.ps1:

```powershell
function Clean {
    #Do something

    $true
}
```

The script containing the example test .\Clean.Tests.ps1:

```powershell
BeforeAll {
    .
$PSCommandPath.Replace('.Tests.ps1', '.ps1')
}

Describe "Clean" {

    It "Returns expected output" {
        Clean | Should -Be $true
    }
}
```

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
New-Fixture -Name Clean
```

Creates the scripts in the current directory.

### EXAMPLE 2

```powershell
New-Fixture C:\Projects\Cleaner Clean
```

Creates the scripts in the C:\Projects\Cleaner directory.

### EXAMPLE 3

```powershell
New-Fixture Cleaner Clean
```

Creates a new folder named Cleaner in the current directory and creates the scripts in it.

## PARAMETERS

### -Name

Defines the name of the function and the name of the test to be created.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 1
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Path

Defines path where the test and the function should be created, you can use full or relative path.
If the parameter is not specified the scripts are created in the current directory.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: 2
Default value: $PWD
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/New-Fixture](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/New-Fixture)

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Describe](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Describe)

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Context](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Context)

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/It](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/It)

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Should](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Should)

## EDIT THIS PAGE

This page was auto-generated using the comment based help in Pester 5.2.1. To edit the content of this page, change the corresponding help in the [pester/Pester](https://github.com/pester/pester) repository. See our [contribution guide](https://github.com/pester/docs#contributing) for more information.

Commit message:

Bump command reference and fix PowerShell casing (#212)
* Fix PowerShell casing

* Fix PowerShell casing

* Fix PowerShell casing

* Bumps command reference to 5.3.3 and fixes PowerShell casing

* Fix bug detecting code block comment as markdown header

* Fixes for unwanted extra newlines and incorrect powershell monicker

* Fixed by improved markdown header detection

* Adds fix for incorrect indentation of code blocks with opening curly bracket

docs/commands/New-Fixture.mdx, after:

---
id: New-Fixture
title: New-Fixture
description: Help page for the PowerShell Pester "New-Fixture" command
keywords:
  - PowerShell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

## SYNOPSIS

This function generates two scripts, one that defines a function
and another one that contains its tests.

## SYNTAX

```powershell
New-Fixture [-Name] <String> [[-Path] <String>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

This function generates two scripts, one that defines a function
and another one that contains its tests.
The files are by default
placed in the current directory and are called and populated as such:

The script defining the function: .\Clean.ps1:

```powershell
function Clean {
    throw [NotImplementedException]'Clean is not implemented.'
}
```

The script containing the example test .\Clean.Tests.ps1:

```powershell
BeforeAll {
    .
$PSCommandPath.Replace('.Tests.ps1', '.ps1')
}

Describe "Clean" {
    It "Returns expected output" {
        Clean | Should -Be "YOUR_EXPECTED_VALUE"
    }
}
```

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
New-Fixture -Name Clean
```

Creates the scripts in the current directory.

### EXAMPLE 2

```powershell
New-Fixture Clean C:\Projects\Cleaner
```

Creates the scripts in the C:\Projects\Cleaner directory.

### EXAMPLE 3

```powershell
New-Fixture -Name Clean -Path Cleaner
```

Creates a new folder named Cleaner in the current directory and creates the scripts in it.

## PARAMETERS

### -Name

Defines the name of the function and the name of the test to be created.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 1
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Path

Defines path where the test and the function should be created, you can use full or relative path.
If the parameter is not specified the scripts are created in the current directory.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: 2
Default value: $PWD
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/New-Fixture](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/New-Fixture)

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Describe](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Describe)

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Context](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Context)

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/It](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/It)

[https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Should](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/Should)

## EDIT THIS PAGE

This page was auto-generated using the comment based help in Pester 5.3.3. To edit the content of this page, change the corresponding help in the [pester/Pester](https://github.com/pester/pester) repository. See our [contribution guide](https://github.com/pester/docs#contributing) for more information.
