docs/commands/Set-ItResult.mdx, before:

---
id: Set-ItResult
title: Set-ItResult
description: Help page for the Powershell Pester "Set-ItResult" command
keywords:
  - Powershell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

## SYNOPSIS

Set-ItResult is used inside the It block to explicitly set the test result

## SYNTAX

### Inconclusive

```powershell
Set-ItResult [-Inconclusive] [-Because <String>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### Pending

```powershell
Set-ItResult [-Pending] [-Because <String>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### Skipped

```powershell
Set-ItResult [-Skipped] [-Because <String>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

Sometimes a test shouldn't be executed, sometimes the condition cannot be evaluated.
By default such tests would typically fail and produce a big red message.
Using Set-ItResult it is possible to set the result from the inside of the It script
block to either inconclusive, pending or skipped.

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
Describe "Example" {
    It "Inconclusive result test" {
        Set-ItResult -Inconclusive -Because "we want it to be inconclusive"
    }
}
```

the output should be

```
[?] Inconclusive result test, is inconclusive, because we want it to be inconclusive
Tests completed in 0ms
Tests Passed: 0, Failed: 0, Skipped: 0, Pending: 0, Inconclusive 1
```

### EXAMPLE 2

```powershell
Describe "Example" {
    It "Skipped test" {
        Set-ItResult -Skipped -Because "we want it to be skipped"
    }
}
```

the output should be

```
[!] Skipped test, is skipped, because we want it to be skipped
Tests completed in 0ms
Tests Passed: 0, Failed: 0, Skipped: 0, Pending: 0, Inconclusive 1
```

## PARAMETERS

### -Inconclusive

Sets the test result to inconclusive.
Cannot be used at the same time as -Pending or -Skipped

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Inconclusive
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Pending

Sets the test result to pending.
Cannot be used at the same time as -Inconclusive or -Skipped

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Pending
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Skipped

Sets the test result to skipped.
Cannot be used at the same time as -Inconclusive or -Pending

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Skipped
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Because

Similarily to failing tests, skipped and inconclusive tests should have reason.
It allows
to provide information to the user why the test is neither successful nor failed.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

## EDIT THIS PAGE

This page was auto-generated using Pester's comment based help. To edit the content of this page, change the corresponding help in the [pester/Pester](https://github.com/pester/pester) repository. See our [contribution guide](https://github.com/pester/docs#contributing) for more information.

Commit message:

Docusuarus versioning (with Pester v4 and v5 cut) (#54)
* Bumps docusaurus to 2.0.0-alpha.62

* Adds versioning (v4 and v5)

* Make URL a proper markdown link

* Do not break the build on broken links (for now)

* Point v4 links to v4 on pester.dev

* Updates command reference to Pester v5

* Enables the docsVersionDropdown

* Updates generate-help script to re-add footer and editUrl

* Disable get-help links breaking the build

* Fix link to command pages root

docs/commands/Set-ItResult.mdx, after:

---
id: Set-ItResult
title: Set-ItResult
description: Help page for the Powershell Pester "Set-ItResult" command
keywords:
  - Powershell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

## SYNOPSIS

Set-ItResult is used inside the It block to explicitly set the test result

## SYNTAX

### Inconclusive

```powershell
Set-ItResult [-Inconclusive] [-Because <String>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### Pending

```powershell
Set-ItResult [-Pending] [-Because <String>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### Skipped

```powershell
Set-ItResult [-Skipped] [-Because <String>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

Sometimes a test shouldn't be executed, sometimes the condition cannot be evaluated.
By default such tests would typically fail and produce a big red message.
Using Set-ItResult it is possible to set the result from the inside of the It script
block to either inconclusive, pending or skipped.

As of Pester 5, there is no "Inconclusive" or "Pending" test state, so all tests will now go to state skipped,
however the test result notes will include information about being inconclusive or testing to keep this command
backwards compatible

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1

```powershell
Describe "Example" {
    It "Skipped test" {
        Set-ItResult -Skipped -Because "we want it to be skipped"
    }
}
```

the output should be

```
[!] Skipped test is skipped, because we want it to be skipped
Tests completed in 0ms
Tests Passed: 0, Failed: 0, Skipped: 0, Pending: 0, Inconclusive 1
```

## PARAMETERS

### -Inconclusive

**DEPRECATED** Sets the test result to inconclusive.
Cannot be used at the same time as -Pending or -Skipped

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Inconclusive
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Pending

**DEPRECATED** Sets the test result to pending.
Cannot be used at the same time as -Inconclusive or -Skipped

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Pending
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Skipped

Sets the test result to skipped.
Cannot be used at the same time as -Inconclusive or -Pending

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Skipped
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Because

Similarily to failing tests, skipped and inconclusive tests should have reason.
It allows
to provide information to the user why the test is neither successful nor failed.

```yaml
Type: String
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

## EDIT THIS PAGE

This page was auto-generated using Pester's comment based help. To edit the content of this page, change the corresponding help in the [pester/Pester](https://github.com/pester/pester) repository. See our [contribution guide](https://github.com/pester/docs#contributing) for more information.
