docs/commands/Should.mdx, before:

---
id: Should
title: Should
description: Help page for the Powershell Pester "Should" command
keywords:
  - Powershell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## SYNOPSIS

Should is a keyword what is used to define an assertion inside It block.

## SYNTAX

### Be

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Be] [-Not] [-ExpectedValue <Object>] [-Because <Object>]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### BeExactly

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-ExpectedValue <Object>] [-Because <Object>] [-BeExactly]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### BeGreaterThan

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-ExpectedValue <Object>] [-Because <Object>] [-BeGreaterThan]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### BeLessOrEqual

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-ExpectedValue <Object>] [-Because <Object>] [-BeLessOrEqual]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### BeIn

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-ExpectedValue <Object>] [-Because <Object>] [-BeIn]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### BeLessThan

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-ExpectedValue <Object>] [-Because <Object>] [-BeLessThan]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### BeGreaterOrEqual

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-ExpectedValue <Object>] [-Because <Object>] [-BeGreaterOrEqual]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### BeLike

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-ExpectedValue <Object>] [-Because <Object>] [-BeLike]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### BeLikeExactly

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-ExpectedValue <Object>] [-Because <Object>] [-BeLikeExactly]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### BeNullOrEmpty

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-Because <Object>] [-BeNullOrEmpty] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### BeOfType

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-Because <Object>] [-BeOfType] [-ExpectedType <Object>]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### BeTrue

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-Because <Object>] [-BeTrue] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### BeFalse

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-Because <Object>] [-BeFalse] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### Contain

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-ExpectedValue <Object>] [-Because <Object>] [-Contain]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### Exist

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-Because <Object>] [-Exist] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### FileContentMatch

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-Because <Object>] [-FileContentMatch] [-ExpectedContent <Object>]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### FileContentMatchExactly

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-Because <Object>] [-ExpectedContent <Object>]
 [-FileContentMatchExactly] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### FileContentMatchMultiline

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-Because <Object>] [-ExpectedContent <Object>]
 [-FileContentMatchMultiline] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### HaveCount

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-ExpectedValue <Object>] [-Because <Object>] [-HaveCount]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### HaveParameter

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-Because <Object>] [-HaveParameter] [-ParameterName <Object>]
 [-Type <Object>] [-DefaultValue <Object>] [-Mandatory] [-HasArgumentCompleter] [-Alias <Object>]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### Match

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-Because <Object>] [-Match] [-RegularExpression <Object>]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### MatchExactly

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-Because <Object>] [-RegularExpression <Object>] [-MatchExactly]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### Throw

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-Because <Object>] [-Throw] [-ExpectedMessage <Object>]
 [-ErrorId <Object>] [-ExceptionType <Object>] [-PassThru] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### InvokeVerifiable

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-InvokeVerifiable] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### Invoke

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-Because <Object>] [-Invoke] [-CommandName <Object>] [-Times <Object>]
 [-ParameterFilter <Object>] [-ExclusiveFilter <Object>] [-ModuleName <Object>] [-Scope <Object>] [-Exactly]
 [-CallerSessionState <Object>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

Should is a keyword what is used to define an assertion inside the It block.
Should provides assertion methods for verify assertion e.g.
comparing objects.
If assertion is not met the test fails and an exception is throwed up.

Should can be used more than once in the It block if more than one assertion
need to be verified.
Each Should keywords need to be located in a new line.
Test will be passed only when all assertion will be met (logical conjuction).

## EXAMPLES

### Example 1

```powershell
PS C:\> {{ Add example code here }}
```

{{ Add example description here }}

## PARAMETERS

### -ActualValue

{{ Fill ActualValue Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: 1
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByValue)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Alias

{{ Fill Alias Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: HaveParameter
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Be

{{ Fill Be Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Be
Aliases: EQ

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Because

{{ Fill Because Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: Be, BeExactly, BeGreaterThan, BeLessOrEqual, BeIn, BeLessThan, BeGreaterOrEqual, BeLike, BeLikeExactly, BeNullOrEmpty, BeOfType, BeTrue, BeFalse, Contain, Exist, FileContentMatch, FileContentMatchExactly, FileContentMatchMultiline, HaveCount, HaveParameter, Match, MatchExactly, Throw, Invoke
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -BeExactly

{{ Fill BeExactly Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: BeExactly
Aliases: CEQ

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -BeFalse

{{ Fill BeFalse Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: BeFalse
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -BeGreaterOrEqual

{{ Fill BeGreaterOrEqual Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: BeGreaterOrEqual
Aliases: GE

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -BeGreaterThan

{{ Fill BeGreaterThan Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: BeGreaterThan
Aliases: GT

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -BeIn

{{ Fill BeIn Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: BeIn
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -BeLessOrEqual

{{ Fill BeLessOrEqual Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: BeLessOrEqual
Aliases: LE

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -BeLessThan

{{ Fill BeLessThan Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: BeLessThan
Aliases: LT

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -BeLike

{{ Fill BeLike Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: BeLike
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -BeLikeExactly

{{ Fill BeLikeExactly Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: BeLikeExactly
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -BeNullOrEmpty

{{ Fill BeNullOrEmpty Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: BeNullOrEmpty
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -BeOfType

{{ Fill BeOfType Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: BeOfType
Aliases: HaveType

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -BeTrue

{{ Fill BeTrue Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: BeTrue
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -CallerSessionState

{{ Fill CallerSessionState Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: Invoke
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -CommandName

{{ Fill CommandName Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: Invoke
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Contain

{{ Fill Contain Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Contain
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -DefaultValue

{{ Fill DefaultValue Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: HaveParameter
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ErrorId

{{ Fill ErrorId Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: Throw
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Exactly

{{ Fill Exactly Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Invoke
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ExceptionType

{{ Fill ExceptionType Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: Throw
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ExclusiveFilter

{{ Fill ExclusiveFilter Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: Invoke
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Exist

{{ Fill Exist Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Exist
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ExpectedContent

{{ Fill ExpectedContent Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: FileContentMatch, FileContentMatchExactly, FileContentMatchMultiline
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ExpectedMessage

{{ Fill ExpectedMessage Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: Throw
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ExpectedType

{{ Fill ExpectedType Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: BeOfType
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ExpectedValue

{{ Fill ExpectedValue Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: Be, BeExactly, BeGreaterThan, BeLessOrEqual, BeIn, BeLessThan, BeGreaterOrEqual, BeLike, BeLikeExactly, Contain, HaveCount
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -FileContentMatch

{{ Fill FileContentMatch Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: FileContentMatch
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -FileContentMatchExactly

{{ Fill FileContentMatchExactly Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: FileContentMatchExactly
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -FileContentMatchMultiline

{{ Fill FileContentMatchMultiline Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: FileContentMatchMultiline
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -HasArgumentCompleter

{{ Fill HasArgumentCompleter Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: HaveParameter
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -HaveCount

{{ Fill HaveCount Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: HaveCount
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -HaveParameter

{{ Fill HaveParameter Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: HaveParameter
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Invoke

{{ Fill Invoke Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Invoke
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -InvokeVerifiable

{{ Fill InvokeVerifiable Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: InvokeVerifiable
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Mandatory

{{ Fill Mandatory Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: HaveParameter
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Match

{{ Fill Match Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Match
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -MatchExactly

{{ Fill MatchExactly Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: MatchExactly
Aliases: CMATCH

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ModuleName

{{ Fill ModuleName Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: Invoke
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Not

{{ Fill Not Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ParameterFilter

{{ Fill ParameterFilter Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: Invoke
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ParameterName

{{ Fill ParameterName Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: HaveParameter
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -PassThru

{{ Fill PassThru Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Throw
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -RegularExpression

{{ Fill RegularExpression Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: Match, MatchExactly
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Scope

{{ Fill Scope Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: Invoke
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Throw

{{ Fill Throw Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Throw
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Times

{{ Fill Times Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: Invoke
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Type

{{ Fill Type Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: HaveParameter
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://github.com/pester/Pester/wiki/Should](https://github.com/pester/Pester/wiki/Should)

about_Should
about_Pester

Commit message:

Updates generate-help script to re-add footer and editUrl

docs/commands/Should.mdx, after:

---
id: Should
title: Should
description: Help page for the Powershell Pester "Should" command
keywords:
  - Powershell
  - Pester
  - Help
  - Documentation
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
custom_edit_url: null
---

## SYNOPSIS

Should is a keyword what is used to define an assertion inside It block.

## SYNTAX

### Be

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Be] [-Not] [-ExpectedValue <Object>] [-Because <Object>]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### BeExactly

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-ExpectedValue <Object>] [-Because <Object>] [-BeExactly]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### BeGreaterThan

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-ExpectedValue <Object>] [-Because <Object>] [-BeGreaterThan]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### BeLessOrEqual

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-ExpectedValue <Object>] [-Because <Object>] [-BeLessOrEqual]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### BeIn

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-ExpectedValue <Object>] [-Because <Object>] [-BeIn]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### BeLessThan

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-ExpectedValue <Object>] [-Because <Object>] [-BeLessThan]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### BeGreaterOrEqual

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-ExpectedValue <Object>] [-Because <Object>] [-BeGreaterOrEqual]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### BeLike

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-ExpectedValue <Object>] [-Because <Object>] [-BeLike]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### BeLikeExactly

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-ExpectedValue <Object>] [-Because <Object>] [-BeLikeExactly]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### BeNullOrEmpty

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-Because <Object>] [-BeNullOrEmpty] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### BeOfType

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-Because <Object>] [-BeOfType] [-ExpectedType <Object>]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### BeTrue

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-Because <Object>] [-BeTrue] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### BeFalse

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-Because <Object>] [-BeFalse] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### Contain

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-ExpectedValue <Object>] [-Because <Object>] [-Contain]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### Exist

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-Because <Object>] [-Exist] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### FileContentMatch

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-Because <Object>] [-FileContentMatch] [-ExpectedContent <Object>]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### FileContentMatchExactly

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-Because <Object>] [-ExpectedContent <Object>]
 [-FileContentMatchExactly] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### FileContentMatchMultiline

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-Because <Object>] [-ExpectedContent <Object>]
 [-FileContentMatchMultiline] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### HaveCount

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-ExpectedValue <Object>] [-Because <Object>] [-HaveCount]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### HaveParameter

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-Because <Object>] [-HaveParameter] [-ParameterName <Object>]
 [-Type <Object>] [-DefaultValue <Object>] [-Mandatory] [-HasArgumentCompleter] [-Alias <Object>]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### Match

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-Because <Object>] [-Match] [-RegularExpression <Object>]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### MatchExactly

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-Because <Object>] [-RegularExpression <Object>] [-MatchExactly]
 [<CommonParameters>]
```

### Throw

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-Because <Object>] [-Throw] [-ExpectedMessage <Object>]
 [-ErrorId <Object>] [-ExceptionType <Object>] [-PassThru] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### InvokeVerifiable

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-InvokeVerifiable] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### Invoke

```powershell
Should [[-ActualValue] <Object>] [-Not] [-Because <Object>] [-Invoke] [-CommandName <Object>] [-Times <Object>]
 [-ParameterFilter <Object>] [-ExclusiveFilter <Object>] [-ModuleName <Object>] [-Scope <Object>] [-Exactly]
 [-CallerSessionState <Object>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

Should is a keyword what is used to define an assertion inside the It block.
Should provides assertion methods for verify assertion e.g.
comparing objects.
If assertion is not met the test fails and an exception is throwed up.

Should can be used more than once in the It block if more than one assertion
need to be verified.
Each Should keywords need to be located in a new line.
Test will be passed only when all assertion will be met (logical conjuction).

## EXAMPLES

### Example 1

```powershell
PS C:\> {{ Add example code here }}
```

{{ Add example description here }}

## PARAMETERS

### -ActualValue

{{ Fill ActualValue Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: 1
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByValue)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Alias

{{ Fill Alias Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: HaveParameter
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Be

{{ Fill Be Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Be
Aliases: EQ

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Because

{{ Fill Because Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: Be, BeExactly, BeGreaterThan, BeLessOrEqual, BeIn, BeLessThan, BeGreaterOrEqual, BeLike, BeLikeExactly, BeNullOrEmpty, BeOfType, BeTrue, BeFalse, Contain, Exist, FileContentMatch, FileContentMatchExactly, FileContentMatchMultiline, HaveCount, HaveParameter, Match, MatchExactly, Throw, Invoke
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -BeExactly

{{ Fill BeExactly Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: BeExactly
Aliases: CEQ

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -BeFalse

{{ Fill BeFalse Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: BeFalse
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -BeGreaterOrEqual

{{ Fill BeGreaterOrEqual Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: BeGreaterOrEqual
Aliases: GE

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -BeGreaterThan

{{ Fill BeGreaterThan Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: BeGreaterThan
Aliases: GT

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -BeIn

{{ Fill BeIn Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: BeIn
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -BeLessOrEqual

{{ Fill BeLessOrEqual Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: BeLessOrEqual
Aliases: LE

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -BeLessThan

{{ Fill BeLessThan Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: BeLessThan
Aliases: LT

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -BeLike

{{ Fill BeLike Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: BeLike
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -BeLikeExactly

{{ Fill BeLikeExactly Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: BeLikeExactly
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -BeNullOrEmpty

{{ Fill BeNullOrEmpty Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: BeNullOrEmpty
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -BeOfType

{{ Fill BeOfType Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: BeOfType
Aliases: HaveType

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -BeTrue

{{ Fill BeTrue Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: BeTrue
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -CallerSessionState

{{ Fill CallerSessionState Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: Invoke
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -CommandName

{{ Fill CommandName Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: Invoke
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Contain

{{ Fill Contain Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Contain
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -DefaultValue

{{ Fill DefaultValue Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: HaveParameter
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ErrorId

{{ Fill ErrorId Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: Throw
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Exactly

{{ Fill Exactly Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Invoke
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ExceptionType

{{ Fill ExceptionType Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: Throw
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ExclusiveFilter

{{ Fill ExclusiveFilter Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: Invoke
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Exist

{{ Fill Exist Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Exist
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ExpectedContent

{{ Fill ExpectedContent Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: FileContentMatch, FileContentMatchExactly, FileContentMatchMultiline
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ExpectedMessage

{{ Fill ExpectedMessage Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: Throw
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ExpectedType

{{ Fill ExpectedType Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: BeOfType
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ExpectedValue

{{ Fill ExpectedValue Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: Be, BeExactly, BeGreaterThan, BeLessOrEqual, BeIn, BeLessThan, BeGreaterOrEqual, BeLike, BeLikeExactly, Contain, HaveCount
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -FileContentMatch

{{ Fill FileContentMatch Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: FileContentMatch
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -FileContentMatchExactly

{{ Fill FileContentMatchExactly Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: FileContentMatchExactly
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -FileContentMatchMultiline

{{ Fill FileContentMatchMultiline Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: FileContentMatchMultiline
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -HasArgumentCompleter

{{ Fill HasArgumentCompleter Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: HaveParameter
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -HaveCount

{{ Fill HaveCount Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: HaveCount
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -HaveParameter

{{ Fill HaveParameter Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: HaveParameter
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Invoke

{{ Fill Invoke Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Invoke
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -InvokeVerifiable

{{ Fill InvokeVerifiable Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: InvokeVerifiable
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Mandatory

{{ Fill Mandatory Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: HaveParameter
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Match

{{ Fill Match Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Match
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -MatchExactly

{{ Fill MatchExactly Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: MatchExactly
Aliases: CMATCH

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ModuleName

{{ Fill ModuleName Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: Invoke
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Not

{{ Fill Not Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ParameterFilter

{{ Fill ParameterFilter Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: Invoke
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ParameterName

{{ Fill ParameterName Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: HaveParameter
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -PassThru

{{ Fill PassThru Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Throw
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -RegularExpression

{{ Fill RegularExpression Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: Match, MatchExactly
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Scope

{{ Fill Scope Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: Invoke
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Throw

{{ Fill Throw Description }}

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: Throw
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Times

{{ Fill Times Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: Invoke
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Type

{{ Fill Type Description }}

```yaml
Type: Object
Parameter Sets: HaveParameter
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS

[https://github.com/pester/Pester/wiki/Should](https://github.com/pester/Pester/wiki/Should)

[about_Should
about_Pester]()

## EDIT THIS PAGE

This page was auto-generated using Pester's comment based help. To edit the content of this page, change the corresponding help in the [pester/Pester](https://github.com/pester/pester) repository. See our [contribution guide](https://github.com/pester/docs#contributing) for more information.
