docs/assertions/custom-assertions.mdx, before:

---
title: Custom Assertions
---

Pester allows users to create their own `Should`-operators for more advanced assertions. This is done by defining a test-function and registering it with Pester using the guidelines below.

## Create the function

### Requirements / Interface

[Should](../commands/Add-ShouldOperator) will automatically pass on values from pipeline to your function as `ActualValue`.
This can be an array or a single object depending on whether you register the function with `-SupportsArrayInput`.

When `Should` calls your custom assertion, it will invoke it with the following parameters:
- **ActualValue**: The value passed to `Should` to assert.
- **Negate**: Internal switch/bool parameter used to delcare if the user called `Should -Not ...`.
- **CallerSessionState**: Used by some internal assertions to invoke code in the user's state. This can usually be ignored.
- *Remaining bound parameters*, typically matching the parameters your accept in your assertion, like `ExpectedValue`, `Because`, `MyCustomParameter` etc.

The function should return a object with the following properties:
- **Succeeded**: Bool result of assert
- **FailureMessage**: Message to the user explaining why the assert failed, typically in the format `Expected <expected value>, but got <actual value>`. If the function supports the commonly used `-Because` parameter, this property should include that message.

If a problem occurs in your function, ex. it was called with invalid parameters, throw an exception. This will also fail the `Should` assertion, while making it clear to the user that it's not normal behavior.

:::tip ActualValue is provided as a single parameter
`Should` accepts the value to assert by pipeline but passes it to the assertion using `-ActualValue $ActualValue`. This means `ValueFromPipelineByPropertyName` is not available inside your function, but you can write your own logic to work with complex types provided to `ActualValue`.
:::

:::caution Using advanced functions as assertions
Advanced functions, typically enabled by using `[CmdletBinding()]` or `[Parameter()]`, disallows arguments by default. In this scenario, make sure to accept all mandatory parameters in your param-block to avoid errors even if you don't use them. They are `ActualValue`, `Negate` and `CallerSessionState`.
:::

### Good practices

- Support `-Not` for negative assertions. If not supported, throw an exception when used.
  - Note that this is passed as `$Negate` to the function.
- Support `-Because` to let users customize the error message on failure.
- Write tests for you custom assertions to make sure they work the way you intended.
  - `Should` will create error records for failed assertions with the `FullyQualifiedErrorId` set to `PesterAssertionFailed`.
- Provide comment-based help with synopsis and examples so users can find it using `Get-ShouldOperator`.
  - If you register an operator with a different name than the internal function, specify `-InternalName YourFunctionName` in `Add-ShouldOperator`.
    This is required for `Get-ShouldOperator` to retrieve your comment-bases help.

## Register function as operator

When your function is ready you need to register it with Pester. See [Add-ShouldOperator](../commands/Add-ShouldOperator) for help or check out the examples below. Remember:

- If `-Name` is different from the actual function name, make sure to specify `-InternalName` with your function name. This is used to retrieve help in `Get-ShouldOperator`.
- Specify `-SupportsArrayInput` if your function should work with array input, ex. `1,2,3 | Should -BeNumber`

Example registering a assertion function named `Should-BeNumber`:

```powershell
Add-ShouldOperator -Name BeNumber `
    -InternalName 'Should-BeNumber' `
    -Test ${function:Should-BeNumber} `
    -Alias 'BeNum' `
    -SupportsArrayInput
```

:::note Maxmimum number of Should operators
Due to a limitation in PowerShell and the current design on `Should`, Pester is limited to a maximum of 32 Should operators. Pester currently includes 25 built-in operators, which limits how many custom operators you can register in a single session.
The limitation is tracked in [this issue](https://github.com/pester/Pester/issues/1355)
:::

## Examples

### Simple example

#### MyCustomAssertions.psm1

```powershell
#Requires -Module Pester

function Should-BeUpperCaseOnly ([string] $ActualValue, [switch] $Negate, [string] $Because) {
    <#
    .SYNOPSIS
        Checks provided string for only uppercase letters
    .EXAMPLE
        "ABC" | Should -BeUpperCaseOnly

        Checks if "ABC" only contains uppercase letters. This should pass.
    .EXAMPLE
        "aBc" | Should -Not -BeUpperCaseOnly

        Checks if "aBc" does NOT contain only uppercase. Since there are lowercase letters in the string, this should pass.
    #>
    $arr = $ActualValue.ToCharArray()
    [bool] $succeeded = @($arr | Where-Object { [char]::IsLetter($_) -and [char]::IsUpper($_) }).Count -eq $arr.Count
    if ($Negate) { $succeeded = -not $succeeded }

    if (-not $succeeded) {
        if ($Negate) {
            $failureMessage = "Expected '$ActualValue' to not only contain uppercase letters$(if($Because) { " because $Because"})."
        }
        else {
            $failureMessage = "Expected '$ActualValue' to only contain uppercase letters$(if($Because) { " because $Because"})."
        }
    }

    return [pscustomobject]@{
        Succeeded      = $succeeded
        FailureMessage = $failureMessage
    }
}

Add-ShouldOperator -Name BeUpperCaseOnly `
    -InternalName 'Should-BeUpperCaseOnly' `
    -Test ${function:Should-BeUpperCaseOnly} `
    -Alias 'BU'
```

#### demo.tests.ps1

```powershell
BeforeDiscovery {
    # Loads and registers my custom assertion. Ignores usage of unapproved verb with -DisableNameChecking
    Import-Module "$PSScriptRoot/MyCustomAssertions.psm1" -DisableNameChecking
}

Describe 'Testing Should -BeUpperCaseOnly' {
    It 'Success' {
        "HELLO" | Should -BeUpperCaseOnly
    }

    It 'Failure' {
        "HeLLo" | Should -BeUpperCaseOnly -Because "it looks cooler"
    }

    It 'Not all characters are uppercase' {
        "hELLO" | Should -Not -BeUpperCaseOnly
    }

    It 'We can test failed assertions' {
        { "fails" | Should -BeUpperCaseOnly } | Should -Throw -ErrorId 'PesterAssertionFailed'
    }
}
```

#### Demo

```powershell
Invoke-Pester ./demo.tests.ps1

Starting discovery in 1 files.
Discovery found 4 tests in 181ms.
Running tests.
[-] Testing custom assertion.Failure 22ms (20ms|3ms)
 Expected 'HeLLo' to only contain uppercase letters because it looks cooler.
 at "HeLLo" | Should -BeUpperCaseOnly -Because "it looks cooler", /workspaces/Pester/Samples/demo.tests.ps1:11
 at <ScriptBlock>, /workspaces/Pester/Samples/demo.tests.ps1:11
Tests completed in 651ms
Tests Passed: 3, Failed: 1, Skipped: 0 NotRun: 0
```

### SupportsArrayInput example

#### MyCustomAssertions.psm1

```powershell
#Requires -Module Pester

function Should-ContainOnlyValuesOf ($ActualValue, [int]$ExpectedValue, [switch] $Negate, [string] $Because) {
    <#
    .SYNOPSIS
        Asserts if collection contains only the expected value
    .EXAMPLE
        3,3,3 | Should -ContainOnlyValuesOf 3

        Checks if the array contains only values of 3. This should pass.

    .EXAMPLE
        1,2,3 | Should -Not -ContainOnlyValuesOf 3

        Checks if the array contains other values than 3. This should pass.
    #>

    $notEqual = foreach ($val in $ActualValue) {
        if ($val -ne $ExpectedValue) { $val }
    }
    [bool] $succeeded = @($notEqual).Count -eq 0
    if ($Negate) { $succeeded = -not $succeeded }

    if (-not $succeeded) {
        if ($Negate) {
            $failureMessage = "Expected values not equal to $ExpectedValue to be in collection @($($ActualValue -join ', '))$(if($Because) { " because $Because"})."
        }
        else {
            $failureMessage = "Expected only values equal to $ExpectedValue in collection @($($ActualValue -join ', '))$(if($Because) { " because $Because"})."
        }
    }

    return [pscustomobject]@{
        Succeeded      = $succeeded
        FailureMessage = $failureMessage
    }
}

Add-ShouldOperator -Name ContainOnlyValuesOf `
    -InternalName 'Should-ContainOnlyValuesOf' `
    -Test ${function:Should-ContainOnlyValuesOf} `
    -SupportsArrayInput
```

#### demo.tests.ps1

```powershell
BeforeDiscovery {
    # Loads and registers my custom assertion. Ignores usage of unapproved verb with -DisableNameChecking
    Import-Module "$PSScriptRoot/MyCustomAssertions.psm1" -DisableNameChecking
}

Describe 'Testing Should -ContainOnlyValuesOf' {
    It 'All values are as expected' {
        3, 3, 3 | Should -ContainOnlyValuesOf 3
    }

    It 'Failure' {
        3, 3, 3 | Should -Not -ContainOnlyValuesOf 3
    }
}
```

#### Demo

```powershell
Invoke-Pester ./demo.tests.ps1

Starting discovery in 1 files.
Discovery found 2 tests in 25ms.
Running tests.
[-] Testing Should -ContainOnlyValuesOf.Failure 8ms (6ms|2ms)
 Expected values not equal to 3 to be in collection @(3, 3, 3).
 at 3, 3, 3 | Should -Not -ContainOnlyValuesOf 3, /workspaces/Pester/Samples/demo.tests.ps1:11
 at <ScriptBlock>, /workspaces/Pester/Samples/demo.tests.ps1:11
Tests completed in 83ms
Tests Passed: 1, Failed: 1, Skipped: 0 NotRun: 0
```

Commit message:

add front-matter description to static v5 pages

docs/assertions/custom-assertions.mdx, after:

---
title: Custom Assertions
description: A guide for creating your own custom operators for more advanced or user-specific assertion needs
---

Pester allows users to create their own `Should`-operators for more advanced assertions. This is done by defining a test-function and registering it with Pester using the guidelines below.

## Create the function

### Requirements / Interface

[Should](../commands/Add-ShouldOperator) will automatically pass on values from pipeline to your function as `ActualValue`.
This can be an array or a single object depending on whether you register the function with `-SupportsArrayInput`.

When `Should` calls your custom assertion, it will invoke it with the following parameters:
- **ActualValue**: The value passed to `Should` to assert.
- **Negate**: Internal switch/bool parameter used to delcare if the user called `Should -Not ...`.
- **CallerSessionState**: Used by some internal assertions to invoke code in the user's state. This can usually be ignored.
- *Remaining bound parameters*, typically matching the parameters your accept in your assertion, like `ExpectedValue`, `Because`, `MyCustomParameter` etc.

The function should return a object with the following properties:
- **Succeeded**: Bool result of assert
- **FailureMessage**: Message to the user explaining why the assert failed, typically in the format `Expected <expected value>, but got <actual value>`. If the function supports the commonly used `-Because` parameter, this property should include that message.

If a problem occurs in your function, ex. it was called with invalid parameters, throw an exception. This will also fail the `Should` assertion, while making it clear to the user that it's not normal behavior.

:::tip ActualValue is provided as a single parameter
`Should` accepts the value to assert by pipeline but passes it to the assertion using `-ActualValue $ActualValue`. This means `ValueFromPipelineByPropertyName` is not available inside your function, but you can write your own logic to work with complex types provided to `ActualValue`.
:::

:::caution Using advanced functions as assertions
Advanced functions, typically enabled by using `[CmdletBinding()]` or `[Parameter()]`, disallows arguments by default. In this scenario, make sure to accept all mandatory parameters in your param-block to avoid errors even if you don't use them. They are `ActualValue`, `Negate` and `CallerSessionState`.
:::

### Good practices

- Support `-Not` for negative assertions. If not supported, throw an exception when used.
  - Note that this is passed as `$Negate` to the function.
- Support `-Because` to let users customize the error message on failure.
- Write tests for you custom assertions to make sure they work the way you intended.
  - `Should` will create error records for failed assertions with the `FullyQualifiedErrorId` set to `PesterAssertionFailed`.
- Provide comment-based help with synopsis and examples so users can find it using `Get-ShouldOperator`.
  - If you register an operator with a different name than the internal function, specify `-InternalName YourFunctionName` in `Add-ShouldOperator`.
    This is required for `Get-ShouldOperator` to retrieve your comment-bases help.

## Register function as operator

When your function is ready you need to register it with Pester. See [Add-ShouldOperator](../commands/Add-ShouldOperator) for help or check out the examples below. Remember:

- If `-Name` is different from the actual function name, make sure to specify `-InternalName` with your function name. This is used to retrieve help in `Get-ShouldOperator`.
- Specify `-SupportsArrayInput` if your function should work with array input, ex. `1,2,3 | Should -BeNumber`

Example registering a assertion function named `Should-BeNumber`:

```powershell
Add-ShouldOperator -Name BeNumber `
    -InternalName 'Should-BeNumber' `
    -Test ${function:Should-BeNumber} `
    -Alias 'BeNum' `
    -SupportsArrayInput
```

:::note Maxmimum number of Should operators
Due to a limitation in PowerShell and the current design on `Should`, Pester is limited to a maximum of 32 Should operators. Pester currently includes 25 built-in operators, which limits how many custom operators you can register in a single session.
The limitation is tracked in [this issue](https://github.com/pester/Pester/issues/1355)
:::

## Examples

### Simple example

#### MyCustomAssertions.psm1

```powershell
#Requires -Module Pester

function Should-BeUpperCaseOnly ([string] $ActualValue, [switch] $Negate, [string] $Because) {
    <#
    .SYNOPSIS
        Checks provided string for only uppercase letters
    .EXAMPLE
        "ABC" | Should -BeUpperCaseOnly

        Checks if "ABC" only contains uppercase letters. This should pass.
    .EXAMPLE
        "aBc" | Should -Not -BeUpperCaseOnly

        Checks if "aBc" does NOT contain only uppercase. Since there are lowercase letters in the string, this should pass.
    #>
    $arr = $ActualValue.ToCharArray()
    [bool] $succeeded = @($arr | Where-Object { [char]::IsLetter($_) -and [char]::IsUpper($_) }).Count -eq $arr.Count
    if ($Negate) { $succeeded = -not $succeeded }

    if (-not $succeeded) {
        if ($Negate) {
            $failureMessage = "Expected '$ActualValue' to not only contain uppercase letters$(if($Because) { " because $Because"})."
        }
        else {
            $failureMessage = "Expected '$ActualValue' to only contain uppercase letters$(if($Because) { " because $Because"})."
        }
    }

    return [pscustomobject]@{
        Succeeded      = $succeeded
        FailureMessage = $failureMessage
    }
}

Add-ShouldOperator -Name BeUpperCaseOnly `
    -InternalName 'Should-BeUpperCaseOnly' `
    -Test ${function:Should-BeUpperCaseOnly} `
    -Alias 'BU'
```

#### demo.tests.ps1

```powershell
BeforeDiscovery {
    # Loads and registers my custom assertion. Ignores usage of unapproved verb with -DisableNameChecking
    Import-Module "$PSScriptRoot/MyCustomAssertions.psm1" -DisableNameChecking
}

Describe 'Testing Should -BeUpperCaseOnly' {
    It 'Success' {
        "HELLO" | Should -BeUpperCaseOnly
    }

    It 'Failure' {
        "HeLLo" | Should -BeUpperCaseOnly -Because "it looks cooler"
    }

    It 'Not all characters are uppercase' {
        "hELLO" | Should -Not -BeUpperCaseOnly
    }

    It 'We can test failed assertions' {
        { "fails" | Should -BeUpperCaseOnly } | Should -Throw -ErrorId 'PesterAssertionFailed'
    }
}
```

#### Demo

```powershell
Invoke-Pester ./demo.tests.ps1

Starting discovery in 1 files.
Discovery found 4 tests in 181ms.
Running tests.
[-] Testing custom assertion.Failure 22ms (20ms|3ms)
 Expected 'HeLLo' to only contain uppercase letters because it looks cooler.
 at "HeLLo" | Should -BeUpperCaseOnly -Because "it looks cooler", /workspaces/Pester/Samples/demo.tests.ps1:11
 at <ScriptBlock>, /workspaces/Pester/Samples/demo.tests.ps1:11
Tests completed in 651ms
Tests Passed: 3, Failed: 1, Skipped: 0 NotRun: 0
```

### SupportsArrayInput example

#### MyCustomAssertions.psm1

```powershell
#Requires -Module Pester

function Should-ContainOnlyValuesOf ($ActualValue, [int]$ExpectedValue, [switch] $Negate, [string] $Because) {
    <#
    .SYNOPSIS
        Asserts if collection contains only the expected value
    .EXAMPLE
        3,3,3 | Should -ContainOnlyValuesOf 3

        Checks if the array contains only values of 3. This should pass.

    .EXAMPLE
        1,2,3 | Should -Not -ContainOnlyValuesOf 3

        Checks if the array contains other values than 3. This should pass.
    #>

    $notEqual = foreach ($val in $ActualValue) {
        if ($val -ne $ExpectedValue) { $val }
    }
    [bool] $succeeded = @($notEqual).Count -eq 0
    if ($Negate) { $succeeded = -not $succeeded }

    if (-not $succeeded) {
        if ($Negate) {
            $failureMessage = "Expected values not equal to $ExpectedValue to be in collection @($($ActualValue -join ', '))$(if($Because) { " because $Because"})."
        }
        else {
            $failureMessage = "Expected only values equal to $ExpectedValue in collection @($($ActualValue -join ', '))$(if($Because) { " because $Because"})."
        }
    }

    return [pscustomobject]@{
        Succeeded      = $succeeded
        FailureMessage = $failureMessage
    }
}

Add-ShouldOperator -Name ContainOnlyValuesOf `
    -InternalName 'Should-ContainOnlyValuesOf' `
    -Test ${function:Should-ContainOnlyValuesOf} `
    -SupportsArrayInput
```

#### demo.tests.ps1

```powershell
BeforeDiscovery {
    # Loads and registers my custom assertion. Ignores usage of unapproved verb with -DisableNameChecking
    Import-Module "$PSScriptRoot/MyCustomAssertions.psm1" -DisableNameChecking
}

Describe 'Testing Should -ContainOnlyValuesOf' {
    It 'All values are as expected' {
        3, 3, 3 | Should -ContainOnlyValuesOf 3
    }

    It 'Failure' {
        3, 3, 3 | Should -Not -ContainOnlyValuesOf 3
    }
}
```

#### Demo

```powershell
Invoke-Pester ./demo.tests.ps1

Starting discovery in 1 files.
Discovery found 2 tests in 25ms.
Running tests.
[-] Testing Should -ContainOnlyValuesOf.Failure 8ms (6ms|2ms)
 Expected values not equal to 3 to be in collection @(3, 3, 3).
 at 3, 3, 3 | Should -Not -ContainOnlyValuesOf 3, /workspaces/Pester/Samples/demo.tests.ps1:11
 at <ScriptBlock>, /workspaces/Pester/Samples/demo.tests.ps1:11
Tests completed in 83ms
Tests Passed: 1, Failed: 1, Skipped: 0 NotRun: 0
```
