docs/contributing/introduction.mdx, before:

---
id: introduction
title: Introduction
sidebar_label: Introduction
---

To propose a new feature to Pester or report a bug, we encourage you to first share your findings
with us by creating a new issue. The feature or bug will be discussed, and if it's something we would
like (or even love!) to see in our codebase we will ask you to create a pull request (PR) for it. We
have a (more or less) standardized process for accepting PRs, but don't let that scare you away. We
understand that you spent your free time to contribute, so we will take our time to help you
successfully add your code to Pester.

## Community

Open source doesn’t always have the best reputation for being friendly and welcoming, and that makes
us sad. **Everyone belongs in open source, and Pester is dedicated to making you feel welcome.**

We will never judge, condescend, or exclude anyone. Instead, we will go above and beyond to support
the community, through helping you contribute to the Pester ecosystem, an open and inclusive code
of conduct, and other means that empower and embrace the incredible community that makes Pester possible.

One of our community's values is that "you belong here".

## Covenant Code of Conduct

In the interest of fostering an open and welcoming environment, we as
contributors and maintainers pledge to making participation in our project and
our community a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body
size, disability, ethnicity, gender identity and expression, level of
experience, nationality, personal appearance, race, religion, or sexual identity
and orientation.

[Read the full code of conduct](https://github.com/pester/Pester/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

## Ways to Contribute

The Pester community welcomes contributions. Please refer to the guides below on how to make sure your contributions get accepted:

- [How to File an Issue](./reporting-issues)
- [How to make a Feature Request](./feature-requests)
- [How to Open a Pull Request](./pull-requests)

## Where to get support

- [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/pester/Pester/discussions)
- [Gitter](https://gitter.im/pester/Pester)
- [Powershell.org](https://forums.powershell.org/c/pester)
- [Slack](https://powershell.slack.com/messages/C03QKTUCS)
- [Discord (#testing)](https://discord.gg/powershell)

### Stack Overflow

Many members of the community use Stack Overflow to ask questions. Read through
the [existing questions](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/pester)
tagged with `pester` or
[ask your own](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/ask?tags=pester)!

### Twitter

For the latest news about Pester,
[follow **@pspester** on Twitter](https://twitter.com/pspester).

Commit message:

add front-matter description to static v5 pages

docs/contributing/introduction.mdx, after:

---
id: introduction
title: Introduction for contributors
sidebar_label: Introduction
description: There are many ways to contribute to the Pester project and community. Check out this short introduction for how to get started
---

To propose a new feature to Pester or report a bug, we encourage you to first share your findings
with us by creating a new issue. The feature or bug will be discussed, and if it's something we would
like (or even love!) to see in our codebase we will ask you to create a pull request (PR) for it. We
have a (more or less) standardized process for accepting PRs, but don't let that scare you away. We
understand that you spent your free time to contribute, so we will take our time to help you
successfully add your code to Pester.

## Community

Open source doesn’t always have the best reputation for being friendly and welcoming, and that makes
us sad. **Everyone belongs in open source, and Pester is dedicated to making you feel welcome.**

We will never judge, condescend, or exclude anyone. Instead, we will go above and beyond to support
the community, through helping you contribute to the Pester ecosystem, an open and inclusive code
of conduct, and other means that empower and embrace the incredible community that makes Pester possible.

One of our community's values is that "you belong here".

## Covenant Code of Conduct

In the interest of fostering an open and welcoming environment, we as
contributors and maintainers pledge to making participation in our project and
our community a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body
size, disability, ethnicity, gender identity and expression, level of
experience, nationality, personal appearance, race, religion, or sexual identity
and orientation.

[Read the full code of conduct](https://github.com/pester/Pester/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

## Ways to Contribute

The Pester community welcomes contributions. Please refer to the guides below on how to make sure your contributions get accepted:

- [How to File an Issue](./reporting-issues)
- [How to make a Feature Request](./feature-requests)
- [How to Open a Pull Request](./pull-requests)

## Where to get support

- [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/pester/Pester/discussions)
- [Gitter](https://gitter.im/pester/Pester)
- [Powershell.org](https://forums.powershell.org/c/pester)
- [Slack](https://powershell.slack.com/messages/C03QKTUCS)
- [Discord (#testing)](https://discord.gg/powershell)

### Stack Overflow

Many members of the community use Stack Overflow to ask questions. Read through
the [existing questions](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/pester)
tagged with `pester` or
[ask your own](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/ask?tags=pester)!

### Twitter

For the latest news about Pester,
[follow **@pspester** on Twitter](https://twitter.com/pspester).
