docs/usage/code-coverage.mdx, before:

---
id: code-coverage
title: Generating Code Coverage Metrics
sidebar_label: Code Coverage
description: Pester can generate code coverage metrics to help you understand how many lines of your PowerShell code that is actually covered by your Pester-tests. Use this to increase confidence in your tests
---

Code Coverage refers to the percentage of lines of code that are tested 
by a suite of unit tests. It's a good general indicator of how thoroughly
your code has been tested, that all branches and edge cases are working 
properly, etc. Pester calculates this coverage during 
test execution and generates a report.

In practice, Pester's Code Coverage analysis provides valuable insights 
into the coverage of your code and helps identify untested branches and edge cases.

## Quickstart

To generate Code Coverage metrics we no longer rely in the `-CodeCoverage` parameter of the `Invoke-Pester` command.
Pester, offers a new way to configure Code Coverage using `New-PesterConfiguration`, as explained in the following snippet:

   ```powershell
   # Create a Pester configuration object using `New-PesterConfiguration`
   $config = New-PesterConfiguration
   
   # Set the test path to specify where your tests are located. In this example, we set the path to the current directory. Pester will look into all subdirectories.
   $config.Run.Path = "."

   # Enable Code Coverage
   $config.CodeCoverage.Enabled = $true

   # Run Pester tests using the configuration you've created
   Invoke-Pester -Configuration $config

   # Example output...
   # Tests completed in 8.26s
   # Tests Passed: 8, Failed: 0, Skipped: 0 NotRun: 0
   # Processing code coverage result.
   # Covered 11.7% / 75%. 735 analyzed Commands in 22 Files.
   ```

The final line displays both the current code coverage and the desired target coverage. You can customize the target coverage by configuring the CodeCoverage.CoveragePercentTarget option.

## Coverage Format

By default, Pester generates a `coverage.xml` file in [JaCoCo](https://www.jacoco.org/) format. You have the flexibility to modify the output format, path, and encoding by using the following options:

```powershell
$config = New-PesterConfiguration
$config.CodeCoverage.OutputFormat = 'CoverageGutters'
$config.CodeCoverage.OutputPath = 'cov.xml'
$config.CodeCoverage.OutputEncoding = 'UTF8'

$config.CodeCoverage.Enabled = $true

Invoke-Pester -Configuration $config
```

For additional `CodeCoverage` configuration options, please refer to the [New-PesterConfiguration](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/New-PesterConfiguration) documentation.

> **Note:** Pester does not traverse directories. 
If you encounter an **empty `coverage.xml` file**, it's likely because you're running the tests from a directory that doesn't
include the relevant code to be covered. 
To resolve this, you can either follow the recommended [Test file structure](https://pester.dev/docs/usage/test-file-structure),
which involves placing the tests alongside the code you want to cover,
or execute Pester from the root directory that contains both the tests and the code to be covered.

## Detailed output 

When Pester is executed with detailed verbosity enabled, it provides a comprehensive output that includes detailed information about the covered lines. For example:

```powershell
$config = New-PesterConfiguration
$config.CodeCoverage.Enabled = $true
$config.Output.Verbosity = 'Detailed'

Invoke-Pester -Configuration $config

# ...
# deploy-dev-smple.ps1                                       18 Write-Ou...
# deploy-dev-sample.ps1                                      20 Write-Er...
# deploy-dev-sample.ps1                                      22 $Content
# deploy-dev-sample.ps1                                      22 Set-Cont...
# deploy-dev-sample.ps1                                      24 kubectl ...
```

## Integrating with GitHub Actions

To integrate Pester tests with Code Coverage into your GitHub Actions workflow, follow these steps:

1. Create or update your GitHub Actions workflow file (e.g., `.github/workflows/pester-tests.yml`). Use the following example as a template:

   ```yaml
   name: Run Pester Tests

   on:
     push:
       branches: [ "dev", "main" ]
     pull_request:
       branches: [ "dev" ]

   jobs:
     pester:
       runs-on: windows-latest 

       steps:
       - name: Checkout code
         uses: actions/checkout@v2

       - name: Install Pester
         shell: pwsh
         run: Install-Module -Name Pester -Force -Scope CurrentUser

       - name: Run Pester Tests
         working-directory: ./solution 
         run: |
           # Run Pester tests with Code Coverage
           $config = New-PesterConfiguration
           $config.Run.Path = "."
           $config.CodeCoverage.Enabled = $true
           $config.TestResult.Enabled = $true
           Invoke-Pester -Configuration $config

       - name: Upload code coverage report
         if: ${{ success() }}
         uses: actions/upload-artifact@v2
         with:
           name: code-coverage-report
           path: solution\coverage.xml
   ```

2. The workflow defined above triggers on pushes to the "dev" and "main" branches and on pull requests targeting the "dev" branch. Make sure to adjust the branch names as needed.

3. This workflow runs on a Windows environment and does the following:
   - Checks out the code.
   - Installs the Pester module.
   - Runs Pester tests with Code Coverage.
   - Uploads the code coverage report as an artifact.

4. Adjust the paths and configurations in the workflow according to your project structure and requirements.

With this configuration, Pester tests will be executed with Code Coverage, and the coverage report will be available as an artifact in your GitHub Actions workflow.

Commit message:

Adding CodeCoverage.Path option suggested

docs/usage/code-coverage.mdx, after:

---
id: code-coverage
title: Generating Code Coverage Metrics
sidebar_label: Code Coverage
description: Pester can generate code coverage metrics to help you understand how many lines of your PowerShell code that is actually covered by your Pester-tests. Use this to increase confidence in your tests
---

Code Coverage refers to the percentage of lines of code that are tested 
by a suite of unit tests. It's a good general indicator of how thoroughly
your code has been tested, that all branches and edge cases are working 
properly, etc. Pester calculates this coverage during 
test execution and generates a report.

In practice, Pester's Code Coverage analysis provides valuable insights 
into the coverage of your code and helps identify untested branches and edge cases.

## Quickstart

To generate Code Coverage metrics we no longer rely in the `-CodeCoverage` parameter of the `Invoke-Pester` command.
Pester, offers a new way to configure Code Coverage using `New-PesterConfiguration`, as explained in the following snippet:

   ```powershell
   # Create a Pester configuration object using `New-PesterConfiguration`
   $config = New-PesterConfiguration
   
   # Set the test path to specify where your tests are located. In this example, we set the path to the current directory. Pester will look into all subdirectories.
   $config.Run.Path = "."

   # Enable Code Coverage
   $config.CodeCoverage.Enabled = $true

   # Run Pester tests using the configuration you've created
   Invoke-Pester -Configuration $config

   # Example output...
   # Tests completed in 8.26s
   # Tests Passed: 8, Failed: 0, Skipped: 0 NotRun: 0
   # Processing code coverage result.
   # Covered 11.7% / 75%. 735 analyzed Commands in 22 Files.
   ```

The final line displays both the current code coverage and the desired target coverage. You can customize the target coverage by configuring the CodeCoverage.CoveragePercentTarget option.

## Coverage Format

By default, Pester generates a `coverage.xml` file in [JaCoCo](https://www.jacoco.org/) format. You have the flexibility to modify the output format, path, and encoding by using the following options:

```powershell
$config = New-PesterConfiguration
$config.CodeCoverage.OutputFormat = 'CoverageGutters'
$config.CodeCoverage.OutputPath = 'cov.xml'
$config.CodeCoverage.OutputEncoding = 'UTF8'

$config.CodeCoverage.Enabled = $true

Invoke-Pester -Configuration $config
```

For additional `CodeCoverage` configuration options, please refer to the [New-PesterConfiguration](https://pester.dev/docs/commands/New-PesterConfiguration) documentation.

:::tip Pester does not traverse directories.
If you encounter an **empty `coverage.xml` file**, it's likely because you're running the tests from a directory that doesn't
include the relevant code to be covered. 
To resolve this, you can either follow the recommended [Test file structure](https://pester.dev/docs/usage/test-file-structure),
which involves placing the tests alongside the code you want to cover,
or set the config `CodeCoverage.Path` option to the directory 
that contains the code to be covered.
:::

## Detailed output 

When Pester is executed with detailed verbosity enabled, it provides a comprehensive output that includes detailed information about the covered lines. For example:

```powershell
$config = New-PesterConfiguration
$config.CodeCoverage.Enabled = $true
$config.Output.Verbosity = 'Detailed'

Invoke-Pester -Configuration $config

# ...
# deploy-dev-smple.ps1                                       18 Write-Ou...
# deploy-dev-sample.ps1                                      20 Write-Er...
# deploy-dev-sample.ps1                                      22 $Content
# deploy-dev-sample.ps1                                      22 Set-Cont...
# deploy-dev-sample.ps1                                      24 kubectl ...
```

## Integrating with GitHub Actions

To integrate Pester tests with Code Coverage into your GitHub Actions workflow, follow these steps:

1. Create or update your GitHub Actions workflow file (e.g., `.github/workflows/pester-tests.yml`). Use the following example as a template:

   ```yaml
   name: Run Pester Tests

   on:
     push:
       branches: [ "dev", "main" ]
     pull_request:
       branches: [ "dev" ]

   jobs:
     pester:
       runs-on: windows-latest 

       steps:
       - name: Checkout code
         uses: actions/checkout@v2

       - name: Install Pester
         shell: pwsh
         run: Install-Module -Name Pester -Force -Scope CurrentUser

       - name: Run Pester Tests
         working-directory: ./solution 
         run: |
           # Run Pester tests with Code Coverage
           $config = New-PesterConfiguration
           $config.Run.Path = "."
           $config.CodeCoverage.Enabled = $true
           $config.TestResult.Enabled = $true
           Invoke-Pester -Configuration $config

       - name: Upload code coverage report
         if: ${{ success() }}
         uses: actions/upload-artifact@v2
         with:
           name: code-coverage-report
           path: solution\coverage.xml
   ```

2. The workflow defined above triggers on pushes to the "dev" and "main" branches and on pull requests targeting the "dev" branch. Make sure to adjust the branch names as needed.

3. This workflow runs on a Windows environment and does the following:
   - Checks out the code.
   - Installs the Pester module.
   - Runs Pester tests with Code Coverage.
   - Uploads the code coverage report as an artifact.

4. Adjust the paths and configurations in the workflow according to your project structure and requirements.

With this configuration, Pester tests will be executed with Code Coverage, and the coverage report will be available as an artifact in your GitHub Actions workflow.
