docs/usage/importing-tested-functions.mdx, before:

---
title: Importing tested functions
---

> Migrating from Pester v4? Jump to [Migrating from Pester v4](#migrating-from-pester-v4).


### Importing the tested functions

Pester tests are placed in `.Tests.ps1` file, for example `Get-Emoji.Tests.ps1`. The code is placed in `Get-Emoji.ps1`.

To make the tested code available to the test we need to import the code file. This is done by dot-sourcing the file into the current scope like this:

```powershell
# at the top of Get-Emoji.Tests.ps1
BeforeAll {
    . $PSScriptRoot/Get-Emoji.ps1
}
```

This code will locate the `Get-Emoji.ps1` file, which is placed in the same directory as `Get-Emoji.Tests.ps1` and import it into the test by dot-sourcing it.

Alternatively `$PSCommandPath` can be used to get the name of the code file by convention:

```powershell
BeforeAll {
    # Get-Emoji.Tests.ps1 - .Tests.ps1 + .ps1 = Get-Emoji.ps1
    . $PSCommandPath.Replace('.Tests.ps1','.ps1')
}
```

This avoids spelling out the name of the referenced file every time.

:::caution
The code above is using `string.Replace()` method which is case sensitive. Make sure you say `Tests` and that the test file is named `.Tests.ps1`.
:::

:::caution
Pester v4 users might be inclined not to use the `BeforeAll` block or to use `$MyInvocation.MyCommand.Path` in `BeforeAll`. Neither will work. See [Migrating from Pester v4](#migrating-from-pester-v4).
:::


## Migrating from Pester v4
### Put setup in BeforeAll

In Pester v5 the setup code should be put into a `BeforeAll` block, and `$MyInvocation.MyCommand.Path` should *NOT* be used:

```PowerShell
# BEFORE (Pester v4):

$here = Split-Path -Parent $MyInvocation.MyCommand.Path
$sut = (Split-Path -Leaf $MyInvocation.MyCommand.Path).Replace(".Tests.", ".")
. "$here\$sut"

Describe "Get-Cactus" {
    It "Returns 🌵" {
        Get-Cactus | Should -Be '🌵'
    }
}
```

```powershell
AFTER (Pester v5):

BeforeAll {
    # DON'T use $MyInvocation.MyCommand.Path
    . $PSCommandPath.Replace('.Tests.ps1','.ps1')
}

Describe "Get-Cactus" {
    It "Returns 🌵" {
        Get-Cactus | Should -Be '🌵'
    }
}
```

### Using `$MyInvocation.MyCommand.Path` in other code

`$MyInvocation.MyCommand.Path` can be used in other parts of your code, just not in `BeforeAll`. If you module uses it, then it will continue to work even when used with Pester 5. The breaking change in Pester is because the `$here\$sut` snippet relies on the fact that it runs directly in the script, which is no longer true when placed in `BeforeAll`. This problem is not specific to `BeforeAll`, running `$MyInvocation.MyCommand.Path` in any function will make the Path property undefined:

```powershell
"in script: -$($MyInvocation.MyCommand.Path)-"

function f () { "in function: -$($MyInvocation.MyCommand.Path)-" }
f

# output:
in script: -C:\temp\script.ps1-
in function: --
```

Commit message:

Add description to static pages in v5 docs (#199)
* add front-matter description to static v5 pages

* changes after review

docs/usage/importing-tested-functions.mdx, after:

---
title: Importing tested functions
description: Importing your PowerShell-code is essential to being able to test it. See how to import functions from your code to make them available for your tests
---

> Migrating from Pester v4? Jump to [Migrating from Pester v4](#migrating-from-pester-v4).


### Importing the tested functions

Pester tests are placed in `.Tests.ps1` file, for example `Get-Emoji.Tests.ps1`. The code is placed in `Get-Emoji.ps1`.

To make the tested code available to the test we need to import the code file. This is done by dot-sourcing the file into the current scope like this:

```powershell
# at the top of Get-Emoji.Tests.ps1
BeforeAll {
    . $PSScriptRoot/Get-Emoji.ps1
}
```

This code will locate the `Get-Emoji.ps1` file, which is placed in the same directory as `Get-Emoji.Tests.ps1` and import it into the test by dot-sourcing it.

Alternatively `$PSCommandPath` can be used to get the name of the code file by convention:

```powershell
BeforeAll {
    # Get-Emoji.Tests.ps1 - .Tests.ps1 + .ps1 = Get-Emoji.ps1
    . $PSCommandPath.Replace('.Tests.ps1','.ps1')
}
```

This avoids spelling out the name of the referenced file every time.

:::caution
The code above is using `string.Replace()` method which is case sensitive. Make sure you say `Tests` and that the test file is named `.Tests.ps1`.
:::

:::caution
Pester v4 users might be inclined not to use the `BeforeAll` block or to use `$MyInvocation.MyCommand.Path` in `BeforeAll`. Neither will work. See [Migrating from Pester v4](#migrating-from-pester-v4).
:::


## Migrating from Pester v4
### Put setup in BeforeAll

In Pester v5 the setup code should be put into a `BeforeAll` block, and `$MyInvocation.MyCommand.Path` should *NOT* be used:

```PowerShell
# BEFORE (Pester v4):

$here = Split-Path -Parent $MyInvocation.MyCommand.Path
$sut = (Split-Path -Leaf $MyInvocation.MyCommand.Path).Replace(".Tests.", ".")
. "$here\$sut"

Describe "Get-Cactus" {
    It "Returns 🌵" {
        Get-Cactus | Should -Be '🌵'
    }
}
```

```powershell
AFTER (Pester v5):

BeforeAll {
    # DON'T use $MyInvocation.MyCommand.Path
    . $PSCommandPath.Replace('.Tests.ps1','.ps1')
}

Describe "Get-Cactus" {
    It "Returns 🌵" {
        Get-Cactus | Should -Be '🌵'
    }
}
```

### Using `$MyInvocation.MyCommand.Path` in other code

`$MyInvocation.MyCommand.Path` can be used in other parts of your code, just not in `BeforeAll`. If you module uses it, then it will continue to work even when used with Pester 5. The breaking change in Pester is because the `$here\$sut` snippet relies on the fact that it runs directly in the script, which is no longer true when placed in `BeforeAll`. This problem is not specific to `BeforeAll`, running `$MyInvocation.MyCommand.Path` in any function will make the Path property undefined:

```powershell
"in script: -$($MyInvocation.MyCommand.Path)-"

function f () { "in function: -$($MyInvocation.MyCommand.Path)-" }
f

# output:
in script: -C:\temp\script.ps1-
in function: --
```
