docs/usage/mocking.mdx, before:

---
id: mocking
title: Mocking with Pester
sidebar_label: Mocking
---

Pester provides a set of Mocking functions making it easy to fake dependencies and also to verify behavior. Using these mocking functions can allow you to "shim" a data layer or mock other complex functions that already have their own tests.

## Description

With the set of Mocking functions that Pester exposes, one can:

* Mock the behavior of ANY powershell command.
* Verify that specific commands were (or were not) called.
* Verify the number of times a command was called with a set of specified parameters.

## Mocking Functions

### Mock

Mocks the behavior of an existing command with an alternate implementation.

### Should -Invoke

Checks if a mocked command has been called a certain number of times and throws an exception if it has not.

### Should -InvokeVerifiable

Checks if any verifiable Mock has not been invoked. If so, this will throw an exception.

## Example

```powershell
BeforeAll{
    function Build ($version) {
        Write-Host "a build was run for version: $version"
    }

    function Get-Version{
        return 'Version'
    }

    function Get-NextVersion {
        return 'NextVersion'
    }

    function BuildIfChanged {
        $thisVersion = Get-Version
        $nextVersion = Get-NextVersion
        if ($thisVersion -ne $nextVersion) { Build $nextVersion }
        return $nextVersion
    }
}

Describe "BuildIfChanged" {
    Context "When there are Changes" {
        BeforeEach{
            Mock Get-Version {return 1.1}
            Mock Get-NextVersion {return 1.2}
            Mock Build {} -Verifiable -ParameterFilter {$version -eq 1.2}

            $result = BuildIfChanged
        }

        It "Builds the next version" {
            Should -InvokeVerifiable
        }

        It "returns the next version number" {
            $result | Should -Be 1.2
        }
    }
    Context "When there are no Changes" {
        BeforeEach{
            Mock Get-Version { return 1.1 }
            Mock Get-NextVersion { return 1.1 }
            Mock Build {}

            $result = BuildIfChanged
        }

        It "Should not build the next version" {
            Should -Invoke -CommandName Build -Times 0 -ParameterFilter {$version -eq 1.1}
        }
    }
}
```

---
If you need to mock calls to commands which are made from inside a Script Module, additional code is required.  For details, refer to [Unit Testing within Modules](./modules)

---

### Mocking a function that is called by a method in a PowerShell class

In PowerShell 6, functions called by classes can be mocked as above, with no known problems.

However previous versions of PowerShell, including **all** versions of Windows PowerShell up to 5.1 cache class definitions in such a way that they are never redefined, even if you remove the module and re-import, or modify the class. This breaks Pester's Mock command, as the scope where the mock must be injected cannot be found.

Dave Wyatt has provided this workaround:

> Simply run your Pester tests in a fresh session every time; this is simple to do with Start-Job. I have this proxy function in my PowerShell profile to help with that:

```powershell
function Invoke-PesterJob
{
[CmdletBinding(DefaultParameterSetName='LegacyOutputXml')]
    param(
        [Parameter(Position=0)]
        [Alias('Path','relative_path')]
        [System.Object[]]
        ${Script},

        [Parameter(Position=1)]
        [Alias('Name')]
        [string[]]
        ${TestName},

        [Parameter(Position=2)]
        [switch]
        ${EnableExit},

        [Parameter(ParameterSetName='LegacyOutputXml', Position=3)]
        [string]
        ${OutputXml},

        [Parameter(Position=4)]
        [Alias('Tags')]
        [string[]]
        ${Tag},

        [string[]]
        ${ExcludeTag},

        [switch]
        ${PassThru},

        [System.Object[]]
        ${CodeCoverage},

        [switch]
        ${Strict},

        [Parameter(ParameterSetName='NewOutputSet', Mandatory=$true)]
        [string]
        ${OutputFile},

        [Parameter(ParameterSetName='NewOutputSet', Mandatory=$true)]
        [ValidateSet('LegacyNUnitXml','NUnitXml')]
        [string]
        ${OutputFormat},

        [switch]
        ${Quiet}
    )

    $params = $PSBoundParameters

    Start-Job -ScriptBlock { Set-Location $using:pwd; Invoke-Pester @using:params } |
    Receive-Job -Wait -AutoRemoveJob
}
Set-Alias ipj Invoke-PesterJob

```
[Source](https://github.com/pester/Pester/issues/797#issuecomment-314495326)


### Mocking a native application

Mocking native commands can be done in a similar way as Powershell functions/cmdlets. The major difference is that native commands don't provide named parameters for us to use inside the mock scriptblock or in a ParameterFilter, so you'd have to rely on arguments made available using `$args`.

```powershell
Describe 'Mocking native commands' {
    It "Mock bash" {
        function GetHTTPHeader ($url) {
            & curl --url $url `
            -I
        }

        Mock curl { Write-Warning "$args" }

        GetHTTPHeader -url "https://google.com"

        Should -Invoke -CommandName "curl" -Exactly -Times 1 -ParameterFilter { $args[0] -eq '--url' -and $args[1] -eq 'https://google.com'}

        # By converting args to string (will concat using space by default) you can match a pattern if order might change. remember linebreaks
        Should -Invoke -CommandName "curl" -Exactly -Times 1 -ParameterFilter { "$args" -match "--url https://google.com -I" }
    }
}
```

## $PesterBoundParameters

Calling a mocked command will execute a proxy-function (hook) which evaluates and chooses the correct behavior/mock to invoke in that scenario. Because of this proxy `$PSBoundParameters` will be overwritten and are not available inside your mock's scriptblock.

Starting in Pester 5.2.0, a new `$PesterBoundParameters` variable has been introduced as a replacement. Using this you can evaluate bound parameters and/or forward them to other functions inside your mock's code.

```powershell
Describe 'PesterBoundParameters' {
    It 'Demo' {
        Mock -CommandName Write-Host -MockWith {
            # Do something else
            Write-Warning -Message "MOCKED - $Object"

            # Call real Write-Host with bound parameters
            & (Get-Command -CommandType Cmdlet -Name Write-Host) @PesterBoundParameters
        }

        Write-Host -Object "This should be red" -ForegroundColor Red
    }
}
```

## Changes from Pester v4

### Mocks are scoped based on their placement

Mocks are no longer effective in the whole `Describe` / `Context` in which they were placed. Instead they will default to the block in which they were placed. Both of these work:

```powershell
Describe "d" {
    BeforeAll {
        function f () { "real" }
    }

    It "i" {
        Mock f { "mock" }
        f | Should -Be "mock"
    }

    It "j" {
        f | Should -Be "real"
    }
}

Describe "d" {
    BeforeAll {
        function f () { "real" }
        Mock f { "mock" }
    }

    It "i" {
        f | Should -Be "mock"
    }

    It "j" {
        f | Should -Be "mock"
    }
}
```

### Counting mocks depends on placement

Counting mocks depends on where the assertion is placed. In `It`, `BeforeEach` and `AfterEach` it defaults to `It` scope. In `Describe`, `Context`, `BeforeAll` and `AfterAll`, it default to `Describe` or `Context` based on the command that contains them. The default can still be overriden by specifying `-Scope` parameter.

```powershell

Describe "d" {

    BeforeAll {
        function f () { "real" }
        Mock f { "mock" }
    }

    It "i" {
        f
        Should -Invoke f -Exactly 1
    }

    It "j" {
        f
        Should -Invoke f -Exactly 1
    }

    It "k" {
        f
        Should -Invoke f -Exactly 3 -Scope Describe
    }

    AfterEach {
        Should -Invoke f -Exactly 1
    }

    AfterAll {
        Should -Invoke f -Exactly 3
    }
}
```

### Default parameters for ParameterFilter

Parameter filters no longer require you to use `param()`.

```powershell
Describe "d" {

    BeforeAll {
        function f ($a) { "real" }
        Mock f { "mock" } -ParameterFilter { $a -eq 10 }
    }

    It "i" {
        f 10
        Should -Invoke f -Exactly 1
    }

    It "j" {
        f 20
        Should -Invoke f -Exactly 0
    }
}
```

Commit message:

Add description to static pages in v5 docs (#199)
* add front-matter description to static v5 pages

* changes after review

docs/usage/mocking.mdx, after:

---
id: mocking
title: Mocking with Pester
sidebar_label: Mocking
description: Pester provides a set of Mocking functions making it easy to fake dependencies and also to verify behavior. Using these mocking functions can allow you to "shim" a data layer or mock other complex functions that already have their own tests
---

Pester provides a set of Mocking functions making it easy to fake dependencies and also to verify behavior. Using these mocking functions can allow you to "shim" a data layer or mock other complex functions that already have their own tests.

## Description

With the set of Mocking functions that Pester exposes, one can:

* Mock the behavior of ANY powershell command.
* Verify that specific commands were (or were not) called.
* Verify the number of times a command was called with a set of specified parameters.

## Mocking Functions

### Mock

Mocks the behavior of an existing command with an alternate implementation.

### Should -Invoke

Checks if a mocked command has been called a certain number of times and throws an exception if it has not.

### Should -InvokeVerifiable

Checks if any verifiable Mock has not been invoked. If so, this will throw an exception.

## Example

```powershell
BeforeAll{
    function Build ($version) {
        Write-Host "a build was run for version: $version"
    }

    function Get-Version{
        return 'Version'
    }

    function Get-NextVersion {
        return 'NextVersion'
    }

    function BuildIfChanged {
        $thisVersion = Get-Version
        $nextVersion = Get-NextVersion
        if ($thisVersion -ne $nextVersion) { Build $nextVersion }
        return $nextVersion
    }
}

Describe "BuildIfChanged" {
    Context "When there are Changes" {
        BeforeEach{
            Mock Get-Version {return 1.1}
            Mock Get-NextVersion {return 1.2}
            Mock Build {} -Verifiable -ParameterFilter {$version -eq 1.2}

            $result = BuildIfChanged
        }

        It "Builds the next version" {
            Should -InvokeVerifiable
        }

        It "returns the next version number" {
            $result | Should -Be 1.2
        }
    }
    Context "When there are no Changes" {
        BeforeEach{
            Mock Get-Version { return 1.1 }
            Mock Get-NextVersion { return 1.1 }
            Mock Build {}

            $result = BuildIfChanged
        }

        It "Should not build the next version" {
            Should -Invoke -CommandName Build -Times 0 -ParameterFilter {$version -eq 1.1}
        }
    }
}
```

---
If you need to mock calls to commands which are made from inside a Script Module, additional code is required.  For details, refer to [Unit Testing within Modules](./modules)

---

### Mocking a function that is called by a method in a PowerShell class

In PowerShell 6, functions called by classes can be mocked as above, with no known problems.

However previous versions of PowerShell, including **all** versions of Windows PowerShell up to 5.1 cache class definitions in such a way that they are never redefined, even if you remove the module and re-import, or modify the class. This breaks Pester's Mock command, as the scope where the mock must be injected cannot be found.

Dave Wyatt has provided this workaround:

> Simply run your Pester tests in a fresh session every time; this is simple to do with Start-Job. I have this proxy function in my PowerShell profile to help with that:

```powershell
function Invoke-PesterJob
{
[CmdletBinding(DefaultParameterSetName='LegacyOutputXml')]
    param(
        [Parameter(Position=0)]
        [Alias('Path','relative_path')]
        [System.Object[]]
        ${Script},

        [Parameter(Position=1)]
        [Alias('Name')]
        [string[]]
        ${TestName},

        [Parameter(Position=2)]
        [switch]
        ${EnableExit},

        [Parameter(ParameterSetName='LegacyOutputXml', Position=3)]
        [string]
        ${OutputXml},

        [Parameter(Position=4)]
        [Alias('Tags')]
        [string[]]
        ${Tag},

        [string[]]
        ${ExcludeTag},

        [switch]
        ${PassThru},

        [System.Object[]]
        ${CodeCoverage},

        [switch]
        ${Strict},

        [Parameter(ParameterSetName='NewOutputSet', Mandatory=$true)]
        [string]
        ${OutputFile},

        [Parameter(ParameterSetName='NewOutputSet', Mandatory=$true)]
        [ValidateSet('LegacyNUnitXml','NUnitXml')]
        [string]
        ${OutputFormat},

        [switch]
        ${Quiet}
    )

    $params = $PSBoundParameters

    Start-Job -ScriptBlock { Set-Location $using:pwd; Invoke-Pester @using:params } |
    Receive-Job -Wait -AutoRemoveJob
}
Set-Alias ipj Invoke-PesterJob

```
[Source](https://github.com/pester/Pester/issues/797#issuecomment-314495326)


### Mocking a native application

Mocking native commands can be done in a similar way as Powershell functions/cmdlets. The major difference is that native commands don't provide named parameters for us to use inside the mock scriptblock or in a ParameterFilter, so you'd have to rely on arguments made available using `$args`.

```powershell
Describe 'Mocking native commands' {
    It "Mock bash" {
        function GetHTTPHeader ($url) {
            & curl --url $url `
            -I
        }

        Mock curl { Write-Warning "$args" }

        GetHTTPHeader -url "https://google.com"

        Should -Invoke -CommandName "curl" -Exactly -Times 1 -ParameterFilter { $args[0] -eq '--url' -and $args[1] -eq 'https://google.com'}

        # By converting args to string (will concat using space by default) you can match a pattern if order might change. remember linebreaks
        Should -Invoke -CommandName "curl" -Exactly -Times 1 -ParameterFilter { "$args" -match "--url https://google.com -I" }
    }
}
```

## $PesterBoundParameters

Calling a mocked command will execute a proxy-function (hook) which evaluates and chooses the correct behavior/mock to invoke in that scenario. Because of this proxy `$PSBoundParameters` will be overwritten and are not available inside your mock's scriptblock.

Starting in Pester 5.2.0, a new `$PesterBoundParameters` variable has been introduced as a replacement. Using this you can evaluate bound parameters and/or forward them to other functions inside your mock's code.

```powershell
Describe 'PesterBoundParameters' {
    It 'Demo' {
        Mock -CommandName Write-Host -MockWith {
            # Do something else
            Write-Warning -Message "MOCKED - $Object"

            # Call real Write-Host with bound parameters
            & (Get-Command -CommandType Cmdlet -Name Write-Host) @PesterBoundParameters
        }

        Write-Host -Object "This should be red" -ForegroundColor Red
    }
}
```

## Changes from Pester v4

### Mocks are scoped based on their placement

Mocks are no longer effective in the whole `Describe` / `Context` in which they were placed. Instead they will default to the block in which they were placed. Both of these work:

```powershell
Describe "d" {
    BeforeAll {
        function f () { "real" }
    }

    It "i" {
        Mock f { "mock" }
        f | Should -Be "mock"
    }

    It "j" {
        f | Should -Be "real"
    }
}

Describe "d" {
    BeforeAll {
        function f () { "real" }
        Mock f { "mock" }
    }

    It "i" {
        f | Should -Be "mock"
    }

    It "j" {
        f | Should -Be "mock"
    }
}
```

### Counting mocks depends on placement

Counting mocks depends on where the assertion is placed. In `It`, `BeforeEach` and `AfterEach` it defaults to `It` scope. In `Describe`, `Context`, `BeforeAll` and `AfterAll`, it default to `Describe` or `Context` based on the command that contains them. The default can still be overriden by specifying `-Scope` parameter.

```powershell

Describe "d" {

    BeforeAll {
        function f () { "real" }
        Mock f { "mock" }
    }

    It "i" {
        f
        Should -Invoke f -Exactly 1
    }

    It "j" {
        f
        Should -Invoke f -Exactly 1
    }

    It "k" {
        f
        Should -Invoke f -Exactly 3 -Scope Describe
    }

    AfterEach {
        Should -Invoke f -Exactly 1
    }

    AfterAll {
        Should -Invoke f -Exactly 3
    }
}
```

### Default parameters for ParameterFilter

Parameter filters no longer require you to use `param()`.

```powershell
Describe "d" {

    BeforeAll {
        function f ($a) { "real" }
        Mock f { "mock" } -ParameterFilter { $a -eq 10 }
    }

    It "i" {
        f 10
        Should -Invoke f -Exactly 1
    }

    It "j" {
        f 20
        Should -Invoke f -Exactly 0
    }
}
```
