docs/usage/modules.mdx, before:

---
id: modules
title: Unit Testing within Modules
sidebar_label: Modules
---

Let's say you have code like this inside a script module (.psm1 file):

```powershell
function BuildIfChanged {
    $thisVersion = Get-Version
    $nextVersion = Get-NextVersion
    if ($thisVersion -ne $nextVersion) { Build $nextVersion }
    return $nextVersion
}

function Build ($version) {
    Write-Host "a build was run for version: $version"
}

# Actual definitions of Get-Version and Get-NextVersion are not shown here,
# since we'll just be mocking them anyway. However, the commands do need to
# exist in order to be mocked, so we'll stick dummy functions here

function Get-Version { return 0 }
function Get-NextVersion { return 0 }

Export-ModuleMember -Function BuildIfChanged
```

You wish to write a unit test for this module which mocks the calls to `Get-Version` and `Get-NextVersion` from the module's `BuildIfChanged` command. In older versions of Pester, this was not possible. As of version 3.0, there are two ways you can perform unit tests of PowerShell script modules. The first is to inject mocks into a module:

For these example, we'll assume that the PSM1 file is named "MyModule.psm1", and that it is installed on your PSModulePath.

```powershell
BeforeAll {
    Import-Module MyModule
}

Describe "BuildIfChanged" {
    Context "When there are Changes" {

        BeforeAll {
            Mock -ModuleName MyModule Get-Version { return 1.1 }
            Mock -ModuleName MyModule Get-NextVersion { return 1.2 }

            # Just for giggles, we'll also mock Write-Host here, to demonstrate that you can
            # mock calls to commands other than functions defined within the same module.
            Mock -ModuleName MyModule Write-Host {} -Verifiable -ParameterFilter {
                $Object -eq 'a build was run for version: 1.2'
            }

            $result = BuildIfChanged
        }

        It "Builds the next version and calls Write-Host" {
            Should -InvokeVerifiable
        }

        It "returns the next version number" {
            $result | Should -Be 1.2
        }
    }

    Context "When there are no Changes" {

        BeforeAll {
            Mock -ModuleName MyModule Get-Version { return 1.1 }
            Mock -ModuleName MyModule Get-NextVersion { return 1.1 }
            Mock -ModuleName MyModule Build { }

            $result = BuildIfChanged
        }

        It "Should not build the next version" {
            # -Scope Context is used below since BuildIfChanged is called in BeforeAll
            # It's not required when the mock is called inside It
            Should -Invoke Build -ModuleName MyModule -Times 0 -Scope Context -ParameterFilter {
                $version -eq 1.1
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Notice that in this example test script, all calls to [Mock](../commands/Mock) and [Should -Invoke](../commands/Should) have had the `-ModuleName MyModule` parameter added. This tells Pester to inject the mock into the module's scope, which causes any calls to those commands from inside the module to execute the mock instead.

When you write your test script this way, you can mock commands that are called by the module's internal functions. However, your test script is still limited to accessing the public, exported members of the module. If you wanted to write a unit test that calls Build directly, for example, it wouldn't work using the above technique. That's where the second approach to script module testing comes into play. With Pester's `InModuleScope` command, you can cause entire sections of your test script to execute inside the targeted script module. This gives you access to non-exported members of the module. For example:

```posh
BeforeAll {
    Import-Module MyModule
}

Describe "Unit testing the module's internal Build function:" {

    It 'Outputs the correct message' {
        InModuleScope MyModule {
            $testVersion = 5.0
            Mock Write-Host { }

            Build $testVersion

            Should -Invoke Write-Host -ParameterFilter {
                $Object -eq "a build was run for version: $testVersion"
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Notice that when using `InModuleScope`, you no longer need to specify a `-ModuleName` parameter when calling `Mock` or `Should -Invoke` for commands within that module. You are also able to directly call the `Build` function, which the module does not export.

---
:warning: **Avoid putting in InModuleScope around your Describe and It blocks.**

`InModuleScope` is a simple way to expose your internal module functions to be tested, but it prevents you from properly testing your published functions, does not ensure that your functions are actually published and slows down test discovery by loading the module. Aim to avoid it altogether by using `-ModuleName` on `Mock` when possible or at least limit it to inside the It block like the sample above.

---

Commit message:

Update caution + tip about scoping inside module

docs/usage/modules.mdx, after:

---
id: modules
title: Unit Testing within Modules
sidebar_label: Modules
---

Let's say you have code like this inside a script module (.psm1 file):

```powershell
function BuildIfChanged {
    $thisVersion = Get-Version
    $nextVersion = Get-NextVersion
    if ($thisVersion -ne $nextVersion) { Build $nextVersion }
    return $nextVersion
}

function Build ($version) {
    Write-Host "a build was run for version: $version"
}

# Actual definitions of Get-Version and Get-NextVersion are not shown here,
# since we'll just be mocking them anyway. However, the commands do need to
# exist in order to be mocked, so we'll stick dummy functions here

function Get-Version { return 0 }
function Get-NextVersion { return 0 }

Export-ModuleMember -Function BuildIfChanged
```

You wish to write a unit test for this module which mocks the calls to `Get-Version` and `Get-NextVersion` from the module's `BuildIfChanged` command. In older versions of Pester, this was not possible. As of version 3.0, there are two ways you can perform unit tests of PowerShell script modules. The first is to inject mocks into a module:

For these example, we'll assume that the PSM1 file is named "MyModule.psm1", and that it is installed on your PSModulePath.

```powershell
BeforeAll {
    Import-Module MyModule
}

Describe "BuildIfChanged" {
    Context "When there are Changes" {

        BeforeAll {
            Mock -ModuleName MyModule Get-Version { return 1.1 }
            Mock -ModuleName MyModule Get-NextVersion { return 1.2 }

            # Just for giggles, we'll also mock Write-Host here, to demonstrate that you can
            # mock calls to commands other than functions defined within the same module.
            Mock -ModuleName MyModule Write-Host {} -Verifiable -ParameterFilter {
                $Object -eq 'a build was run for version: 1.2'
            }

            $result = BuildIfChanged
        }

        It "Builds the next version and calls Write-Host" {
            Should -InvokeVerifiable
        }

        It "returns the next version number" {
            $result | Should -Be 1.2
        }
    }

    Context "When there are no Changes" {

        BeforeAll {
            Mock -ModuleName MyModule Get-Version { return 1.1 }
            Mock -ModuleName MyModule Get-NextVersion { return 1.1 }
            Mock -ModuleName MyModule Build { }

            $result = BuildIfChanged
        }

        It "Should not build the next version" {
            # -Scope Context is used below since BuildIfChanged is called in BeforeAll
            # It's not required when the mock is called inside It
            Should -Invoke Build -ModuleName MyModule -Times 0 -Scope Context -ParameterFilter {
                $version -eq 1.1
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Notice that in this example test script, all calls to [Mock](../commands/Mock) and [Should -Invoke](../commands/Should) have had the `-ModuleName MyModule` parameter added. This tells Pester to inject the mock into the module's scope, which causes any calls to those commands from inside the module to execute the mock instead.

When you write your test script this way, you can mock commands that are called by the module's internal functions. However, your test script is still limited to accessing the public, exported members of the module. If you wanted to write a unit test that calls Build directly, for example, it wouldn't work using the above technique. That's where the second approach to script module testing comes into play. With Pester's `InModuleScope` command, you can cause entire sections of your test script to execute inside the targeted script module. This gives you access to non-exported members of the module. For example:

```posh
BeforeAll {
    Import-Module MyModule
}

Describe "Unit testing the module's internal Build function:" {

    It 'Outputs the correct message' {
        InModuleScope MyModule {
            $testVersion = 5.0
            Mock Write-Host { }

            Build $testVersion

            Should -Invoke Write-Host -ParameterFilter {
                $Object -eq "a build was run for version: $testVersion"
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Notice that when using `InModuleScope`, you no longer need to specify a `-ModuleName` parameter when calling `Mock` or `Should -Invoke` for commands within that module. You are also able to directly call the `Build` function, which the module does not export.

:::caution Avoid putting in InModuleScope around your Describe and It blocks.

`InModuleScope` is a simple way to expose your internal module functions to be tested, but it prevents you from properly testing your published functions, does not ensure that your functions are actually published and slows down test discovery by loading the module. Aim to avoid it altogether by using `-ModuleName` on `Mock` when possible or at least limit it to inside the It block like the sample above.
:::

:::tip Variables and functions created inside InModuleScope won't persist by default

The scriptblock provided to `InModuleScope` is executed in a local scope inside the module session state. If you're creating variables, functions etc. intended to be reused in later outside of this scriptblock, use the `script:` scope-modifier to make them available to all future scopes inside the module.
:::
