docs/usage/skip.mdx, before:

---
title: Skip
---

### Skip on everything

`-Skip` is now available on Describe and Context. This allows you to skip all the tests in that block and every child block.

```powershell
Describe "describe1" {
    Context "with one skipped test" {
        It "test 1" -Skip {
            1 | Should -Be 2
        }

        It "test 2" {
            1 | Should -Be 1
        }
    }

    Describe "that is skipped" -Skip {
        It "test 3" {
            1 | Should -Be 2
        }
    }

    Context "that is skipped and has skipped test" -Skip {
        It "test 3" -Skip {
            1 | Should -Be 2
        }

        It "test 3" {
            1 | Should -Be 2
        }
    }
}
```

```
Starting test discovery in 1 files.
Found 5 tests. 117ms
Test discovery finished. 418ms
Describing describe1
 Context with one skipped test
   [!] test 1, is skipped 18ms (0ms|18ms)
   [+] test 2 52ms (29ms|22ms)
 Describing that is skipped
   [!] test 3, is skipped 12ms (0ms|12ms)
 Context that is skipped and has skipped test
   [!] test 3, is skipped 10ms (0ms|10ms)
   [!] test 3, is skipped 10ms (0ms|10ms)
Tests completed in 1.03s
Tests Passed: 1, Failed: 0, Skipped: 4, Total: 5, NotRun: 0
```

:::caution
Pending is translated to skipped, Inconclusive does not exist anymore.
:::

### Conditional skip

Evaluation of the skip-parameter is done as part of the Discovery-phase. This means you can also dynamically skip tests based on values available in that phase. Either as logic done in BeforeDiscovery or based on values passed into a parametrized test.

```powershell
$sb = {
    param($SkipFirst)

    Describe 'My Describe Block' {
        BeforeDiscovery {
            $skipSecond = 1
        }

        It 'First Test' -Skip:$SkipFirst {
            1 | Should -Be 1
        }

        It 'Second Test' -Skip:($skipSecond -eq 1) {
            1 | Should -Be 1
        }

        It 'Third Test' {
            1 | Should -Be 1
        }
    }
}

$container = New-PesterContainer -ScriptBlock $sb -Data @{ SkipFirst = $true }
$configuration = New-PesterConfiguration
$configuration.Run.Container = $container
$configuration.Output.Verbosity = 'Detailed'

Invoke-Pester -Configuration $configuration
```

```
Starting discovery in 1 files.
Discovering in
    param($SkipFirst)

    Describe 'My Describe Block' {
        BeforeDiscovery {
            $skipSecond = 1
        }

        It 'First Test' -Skip:$SkipFirst {
            1 | Should -Be 1
        }

        It 'Second Test' -Skip:($skipSecond -eq 1) {
            1 | Should -Be 1
        }

        It 'Third Test' {
            1 | Should -Be 1
        }
    }
.
Found 3 tests. 37ms
Discovery finished in 97ms.
Running tests.
Describing My Describe Block
  [!] First Test 3ms (0ms|3ms)
  [!] Second Test 2ms (0ms|2ms)
  [+] Third Test 18ms (16ms|3ms)
Tests completed in 206ms
Tests Passed: 1, Failed: 0, Skipped: 2 NotRun: 0
```

Commit message:

Add description to static pages in v5 docs (#199)
* add front-matter description to static v5 pages

* changes after review

docs/usage/skip.mdx, after:

---
title: Skip
description: Skipping tests can be useful in many scenarios or when certain conditions are not met like OS-compatibility. Read about how to control this in Pester tests
---

### Skip on everything

`-Skip` is now available on Describe and Context. This allows you to skip all the tests in that block and every child block.

```powershell
Describe "describe1" {
    Context "with one skipped test" {
        It "test 1" -Skip {
            1 | Should -Be 2
        }

        It "test 2" {
            1 | Should -Be 1
        }
    }

    Describe "that is skipped" -Skip {
        It "test 3" {
            1 | Should -Be 2
        }
    }

    Context "that is skipped and has skipped test" -Skip {
        It "test 3" -Skip {
            1 | Should -Be 2
        }

        It "test 3" {
            1 | Should -Be 2
        }
    }
}
```

```
Starting test discovery in 1 files.
Found 5 tests. 117ms
Test discovery finished. 418ms
Describing describe1
 Context with one skipped test
   [!] test 1, is skipped 18ms (0ms|18ms)
   [+] test 2 52ms (29ms|22ms)
 Describing that is skipped
   [!] test 3, is skipped 12ms (0ms|12ms)
 Context that is skipped and has skipped test
   [!] test 3, is skipped 10ms (0ms|10ms)
   [!] test 3, is skipped 10ms (0ms|10ms)
Tests completed in 1.03s
Tests Passed: 1, Failed: 0, Skipped: 4, Total: 5, NotRun: 0
```

:::caution
Pending is translated to skipped, Inconclusive does not exist anymore.
:::

### Conditional skip

Evaluation of the skip-parameter is done as part of the Discovery-phase. This means you can also dynamically skip tests based on values available in that phase. Either as logic done in BeforeDiscovery or based on values passed into a parametrized test.

```powershell
$sb = {
    param($SkipFirst)

    Describe 'My Describe Block' {
        BeforeDiscovery {
            $skipSecond = 1
        }

        It 'First Test' -Skip:$SkipFirst {
            1 | Should -Be 1
        }

        It 'Second Test' -Skip:($skipSecond -eq 1) {
            1 | Should -Be 1
        }

        It 'Third Test' {
            1 | Should -Be 1
        }
    }
}

$container = New-PesterContainer -ScriptBlock $sb -Data @{ SkipFirst = $true }
$configuration = New-PesterConfiguration
$configuration.Run.Container = $container
$configuration.Output.Verbosity = 'Detailed'

Invoke-Pester -Configuration $configuration
```

```
Starting discovery in 1 files.
Discovering in
    param($SkipFirst)

    Describe 'My Describe Block' {
        BeforeDiscovery {
            $skipSecond = 1
        }

        It 'First Test' -Skip:$SkipFirst {
            1 | Should -Be 1
        }

        It 'Second Test' -Skip:($skipSecond -eq 1) {
            1 | Should -Be 1
        }

        It 'Third Test' {
            1 | Should -Be 1
        }
    }
.
Found 3 tests. 37ms
Discovery finished in 97ms.
Running tests.
Describing My Describe Block
  [!] First Test 3ms (0ms|3ms)
  [!] Second Test 2ms (0ms|2ms)
  [+] Third Test 18ms (16ms|3ms)
Tests completed in 206ms
Tests Passed: 1, Failed: 0, Skipped: 2 NotRun: 0
```
