docs/usage/test-file-structure.mdx, before:

﻿---
title: Test file structure
---

Pester test files follow a similar structure. Usually there is some setup to get the tested function imported and a top-level `Describe` block to hold all the tests and child blocks. Inside that `Describe` we will find the tests themselves represented by `It` blocks. Those blocks are often grouped into their own `Describe` or `Context` based on the area of code they are testing. Those groups, can each have their own setups and teardowns represented by `BeforeAll`, `BeforeEach`, `AfterEach` and `AfterAll` blocks.

## Simple test file

This test file is a simple as it can be. We have a `BeforeAll` setup placed at the top of the file to import the tested function from its own file. Followed by a top-level `Describe` block called "Get-Emoji" because that is the function we are testing. Inside of that `Describe` block we have a single test represented by an `It` block. This block will run and will either pass or fail to represent the result of the test.

```powershell
# file Get-Emoji.Tests.ps1

BeforeAll {
    . $PSCommandPath.Replace('.Tests.ps1','.ps1')
}

Describe "Get-Emoji" {
    It "Returns 🌵 (cactus)" {
        Get-Emoji -Name cactus | Should -Be '🌵'
    }
}
```

:::caution

Put all your code into `It`, `BeforeAll`, `BeforeEach`, `AfterAll` or `AfterEach`. Put no code directly into `Describe`, `Context` or on the top of your file, without wrapping it in one of these blocks, unless you have a good reason to do so.

All misplaced code will run during Discovery, and its results won't be available during Run which will lead to confusing results.

See [Discovery and Run](discovery-and-run).
:::
## More complex file

In this file we are using more features of Pester and organize our tests into more groups based on what we are testing. Each group is represented by a `Describe` or `Context` block. Within those groups we are specifying distinct setups represented by `BeforeAll` that will run at the start of the `Describe` (or `Context`) that contains them. Specifically we use the setup to run the tested function once per group of tests to ensure that the whole group uses the same filter. This avoids typos and copy paste errors.

```powershell
# file Get-Emoji.Tests.ps1

BeforeAll {
    . $PSCommandPath.Replace('.Tests.ps1','.ps1')
}

Describe "Get-Emoji" {
    Context "Lookup by whole name" {
        It "Returns 🌵 (cactus)" {
            Get-Emoji -Name cactus | Should -Be '🌵'
        }

        It "Returns 🦒 (giraffe)" {
            Get-Emoji -Name giraffe | Should -Be '🦒'
        }
    }

    Context "Lookup by wildcard" {
        Context "by prefix" {
            BeforeAll {
                $emojis = Get-Emoji -Name pen*
            }

            It "Returns ✏️ (pencil)" {
                $emojis | Should -Contain "✏️"
            }

            It "Returns 🐧 (penguin)" {
                $emojis | Should -Contain "🐧"
            }

            It "Returns 😔 (pensive)" {
                $emojis | Should -Contain "😔"
            }
        }

        Context "by contains" {
            BeforeAll {
                $emojis = Get-Emoji -Name *smiling*
            }

            It "Returns 🙂 (slightly smiling face)" {
                $emojis | Should -Contain "🙂"
            }

            It "Returns 😁 (beaming face with smiling eyes)" {
                $emojis | Should -Contain "😁"
            }

            It "Returns 😊 (smiling face with smiling eyes)" {
                $emojis | Should -Contain "😊"
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Each of the groups could also use an `AfterAll` block which would clean up after the tests. This is referred to as teardown. The `AfterAll` block is guaranteed to run even if tests fail.

Additionally we could also have a `BeforeEach` or `AfterEach` block. Those blocks work just like the `*All` blocks, but the code would run before and after each `It`.  See [Setup and teardown](setup-and-teardown) for more info.


:::tip Describe vs. Context
In almost all cases it does not matter if you use `Describe` or `Context`. They behave the same and are the same function internally. There are only two places where we distinguish them:

- On `Mock` when `-Scope Describe` or `-Scope Context` is used.
- In output, when the block information is written to screen.
:::

## More complex file with test cases

The file below can take advantage of `TestCases` (which are also aliased `-ForEach`) to repeat the `It` block once for every item in the provided array. This makes the `It` code repeat less, and makes it very easy to add new examples.

```powershell
# file Get-Emoji.Tests.ps1

BeforeAll {
    . $PSCommandPath.Replace('.Tests.ps1','.ps1')
}

Describe "Get-Emoji" {
    Context "Lookup by whole name" {
        It "Returns <expected> (<name>)" -TestCases @(
            @{ Name = "cactus"; Expected = '🌵'}
            @{ Name = "giraffe"; Expected = '🦒'}
        ) {
            Get-Emoji -Name $name | Should -Be $expected
        }
    }

    Context "Lookup by wildcard" {
        Context "by prefix" {
            BeforeAll {
                $emojis = Get-Emoji -Name pen*
            }

            It "Returns <expected> (<name>)" -TestCases @(
                @{ Name = "pencil"; Expected = '✏️'}
                @{ Name = "penguin"; Expected = '🐧'}
                @{ Name = "pensive"; Expected = '😔'}
            ) {
                $emojis | Should -Contain $expected
            }
        }

        Context "by contains" {
            BeforeAll {
                $emojis = Get-Emoji -Name *smiling*
            }

            It "Returns <expected> (<name>)" -TestCases @(
                @{ Name = "slightly smiling face"; Expected = '🙂'}
                @{ Name = "beaming face with smiling eyes"; Expected = '😁'}
                @{ Name = "smiling face with smiling eyes"; Expected = '😊'}
            ) {
                $emojis | Should -Contain $expected
            }
        }
    }
}
```

See [Data driven tests](data-driven-tests).

## Even more complex file

With the example above we are still far away from a really complex test file. And that is good. The simpler you are able to keep your tests the better. The more static your tests are, the easier it is to feel confident that everything works.

You for example might notice that "by prefix" and "by contains" are very similar, and you would be able to generate them by re-using the same `Context` by just providing a different value to `-Name`. While this is technically possible using the techniques below, I would not do it. The level of complexity shown in "More complex file with test cases" is about right for 90% of tests I write.

Take the examples below as a list of things you might need when you can't avoid them. Not as a list of things that you need to use in all of your tests to get "Advanced Pester user" achievement unlocked. Less is more.

### Test script parameters

Passing parameters using the PowerShell `param()` block to provide external data to the `.Tests.ps1` file:

```powershell
param (
    $File
)

Describe "File <file> is not empty" {
    # ...
}
```
See [Data driven tests](data-driven-tests#providing-external-data-to-tests).


### Expanding data to generate `Describe` and `Context` blocks

Much like on `It`, You can use `-ForEach` on `Describe` and `Context` to repeat it for every item in the provided array:

```powershell
BeforeDiscovery {
    $files = @(
        "Get-Emoji.ps1",
        "Get-Planet.ps1"
    )
}

Describe "function <_> has help" -ForEach $files {
    # ....
}
```

This can be paired with the test script parameters to generate tests based on external data.

See [Data driven tests](data-driven-tests).


### `BeforeDiscovery`

In Pester5 the mantra is to put all code in Pester controlled blocks. No code should be directly in the script, or directly in `Describe` or `Context` block without wrapping it in some other block.

There is a special block called `BeforeDiscovery` that shows intent when you need to put code directly in the script, or directly in `Describe` or `Context` block. This is useful when Data driven tests.

See [Data driven tests](data-driven-tests#beforediscovery).

Commit message:

add front-matter description to static v5 pages

docs/usage/test-file-structure.mdx, after:

﻿---
title: Test file structure
description: Pester uses special keywords and blocks to structure your tests like Describe, Context, It, BeforeAll/-Each etc. See this to learn how they relate and fit together
---

Pester test files follow a similar structure. Usually there is some setup to get the tested function imported and a top-level `Describe` block to hold all the tests and child blocks. Inside that `Describe` we will find the tests themselves represented by `It` blocks. Those blocks are often grouped into their own `Describe` or `Context` based on the area of code they are testing. Those groups, can each have their own setups and teardowns represented by `BeforeAll`, `BeforeEach`, `AfterEach` and `AfterAll` blocks.

## Simple test file

This test file is a simple as it can be. We have a `BeforeAll` setup placed at the top of the file to import the tested function from its own file. Followed by a top-level `Describe` block called "Get-Emoji" because that is the function we are testing. Inside of that `Describe` block we have a single test represented by an `It` block. This block will run and will either pass or fail to represent the result of the test.

```powershell
# file Get-Emoji.Tests.ps1

BeforeAll {
    . $PSCommandPath.Replace('.Tests.ps1','.ps1')
}

Describe "Get-Emoji" {
    It "Returns 🌵 (cactus)" {
        Get-Emoji -Name cactus | Should -Be '🌵'
    }
}
```

:::caution

Put all your code into `It`, `BeforeAll`, `BeforeEach`, `AfterAll` or `AfterEach`. Put no code directly into `Describe`, `Context` or on the top of your file, without wrapping it in one of these blocks, unless you have a good reason to do so.

All misplaced code will run during Discovery, and its results won't be available during Run which will lead to confusing results.

See [Discovery and Run](discovery-and-run).
:::
## More complex file

In this file we are using more features of Pester and organize our tests into more groups based on what we are testing. Each group is represented by a `Describe` or `Context` block. Within those groups we are specifying distinct setups represented by `BeforeAll` that will run at the start of the `Describe` (or `Context`) that contains them. Specifically we use the setup to run the tested function once per group of tests to ensure that the whole group uses the same filter. This avoids typos and copy paste errors.

```powershell
# file Get-Emoji.Tests.ps1

BeforeAll {
    . $PSCommandPath.Replace('.Tests.ps1','.ps1')
}

Describe "Get-Emoji" {
    Context "Lookup by whole name" {
        It "Returns 🌵 (cactus)" {
            Get-Emoji -Name cactus | Should -Be '🌵'
        }

        It "Returns 🦒 (giraffe)" {
            Get-Emoji -Name giraffe | Should -Be '🦒'
        }
    }

    Context "Lookup by wildcard" {
        Context "by prefix" {
            BeforeAll {
                $emojis = Get-Emoji -Name pen*
            }

            It "Returns ✏️ (pencil)" {
                $emojis | Should -Contain "✏️"
            }

            It "Returns 🐧 (penguin)" {
                $emojis | Should -Contain "🐧"
            }

            It "Returns 😔 (pensive)" {
                $emojis | Should -Contain "😔"
            }
        }

        Context "by contains" {
            BeforeAll {
                $emojis = Get-Emoji -Name *smiling*
            }

            It "Returns 🙂 (slightly smiling face)" {
                $emojis | Should -Contain "🙂"
            }

            It "Returns 😁 (beaming face with smiling eyes)" {
                $emojis | Should -Contain "😁"
            }

            It "Returns 😊 (smiling face with smiling eyes)" {
                $emojis | Should -Contain "😊"
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Each of the groups could also use an `AfterAll` block which would clean up after the tests. This is referred to as teardown. The `AfterAll` block is guaranteed to run even if tests fail.

Additionally we could also have a `BeforeEach` or `AfterEach` block. Those blocks work just like the `*All` blocks, but the code would run before and after each `It`.  See [Setup and teardown](setup-and-teardown) for more info.


:::tip Describe vs. Context
In almost all cases it does not matter if you use `Describe` or `Context`. They behave the same and are the same function internally. There are only two places where we distinguish them:

- On `Mock` when `-Scope Describe` or `-Scope Context` is used.
- In output, when the block information is written to screen.
:::

## More complex file with test cases

The file below can take advantage of `TestCases` (which are also aliased `-ForEach`) to repeat the `It` block once for every item in the provided array. This makes the `It` code repeat less, and makes it very easy to add new examples.

```powershell
# file Get-Emoji.Tests.ps1

BeforeAll {
    . $PSCommandPath.Replace('.Tests.ps1','.ps1')
}

Describe "Get-Emoji" {
    Context "Lookup by whole name" {
        It "Returns <expected> (<name>)" -TestCases @(
            @{ Name = "cactus"; Expected = '🌵'}
            @{ Name = "giraffe"; Expected = '🦒'}
        ) {
            Get-Emoji -Name $name | Should -Be $expected
        }
    }

    Context "Lookup by wildcard" {
        Context "by prefix" {
            BeforeAll {
                $emojis = Get-Emoji -Name pen*
            }

            It "Returns <expected> (<name>)" -TestCases @(
                @{ Name = "pencil"; Expected = '✏️'}
                @{ Name = "penguin"; Expected = '🐧'}
                @{ Name = "pensive"; Expected = '😔'}
            ) {
                $emojis | Should -Contain $expected
            }
        }

        Context "by contains" {
            BeforeAll {
                $emojis = Get-Emoji -Name *smiling*
            }

            It "Returns <expected> (<name>)" -TestCases @(
                @{ Name = "slightly smiling face"; Expected = '🙂'}
                @{ Name = "beaming face with smiling eyes"; Expected = '😁'}
                @{ Name = "smiling face with smiling eyes"; Expected = '😊'}
            ) {
                $emojis | Should -Contain $expected
            }
        }
    }
}
```

See [Data driven tests](data-driven-tests).

## Even more complex file

With the example above we are still far away from a really complex test file. And that is good. The simpler you are able to keep your tests the better. The more static your tests are, the easier it is to feel confident that everything works.

You for example might notice that "by prefix" and "by contains" are very similar, and you would be able to generate them by re-using the same `Context` by just providing a different value to `-Name`. While this is technically possible using the techniques below, I would not do it. The level of complexity shown in "More complex file with test cases" is about right for 90% of tests I write.

Take the examples below as a list of things you might need when you can't avoid them. Not as a list of things that you need to use in all of your tests to get "Advanced Pester user" achievement unlocked. Less is more.

### Test script parameters

Passing parameters using the PowerShell `param()` block to provide external data to the `.Tests.ps1` file:

```powershell
param (
    $File
)

Describe "File <file> is not empty" {
    # ...
}
```
See [Data driven tests](data-driven-tests#providing-external-data-to-tests).


### Expanding data to generate `Describe` and `Context` blocks

Much like on `It`, You can use `-ForEach` on `Describe` and `Context` to repeat it for every item in the provided array:

```powershell
BeforeDiscovery {
    $files = @(
        "Get-Emoji.ps1",
        "Get-Planet.ps1"
    )
}

Describe "function <_> has help" -ForEach $files {
    # ....
}
```

This can be paired with the test script parameters to generate tests based on external data.

See [Data driven tests](data-driven-tests).


### `BeforeDiscovery`

In Pester5 the mantra is to put all code in Pester controlled blocks. No code should be directly in the script, or directly in `Describe` or `Context` block without wrapping it in some other block.

There is a special block called `BeforeDiscovery` that shows intent when you need to put code directly in the script, or directly in `Describe` or `Context` block. This is useful when Data driven tests.

See [Data driven tests](data-driven-tests#beforediscovery).
