docs/usage/vscode.mdx, before:

---
title: VSCode
description: See how Visual Studio Code and its extensions helps you run and debug your Pester tests directly inside the editor
---

### VSCode improvements

#### Use legacy code lens

With Pester 5 it is finally possible to run and debug just a single test in VSCode!

![Shows a single test being run using the new Code Lens](images/single-test.gif)

In the latest [PowerShell](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.PowerShell) extension for VSCode you can enable Use Legacy Code Lens option which will enable `Run tests` on all `Describe`, `Context` and `It` blocks. You can run a whole block, any child block, or any test individually. You can also run tests that are marked as skipped by running them individually.

Actually there is a bug, and the option is called Enable Legacy Code Lens, and is enabled by default and should be disabled for Pester 5. 😁 Take advantage of this and go try it right now!

**Instructions:** In Visual Studio Code, select **File | Preferences | Settings** (or type **Ctrl+,**). In the **Settings** window, under the **User** tab, select **Extensions | PowerShell Configuration**. Uncheck the **Pester: Use Legacy Code Lens** checkbox. Close the **Settings** window.


#### Output verbosity

You can specify verbosity in VSCode, to see normal or detailed output, or to take it from PesterPreference. This also works for Pester 4!

![Shows a run with normal preference that shows only errors](images/minimal-output.gif)

Commit message:

Update VSCode page (#315)
* Update VSCode page

* Include navigation features in VSCode

* Fix typos

* Use list for navigation features

* Copy to v5 docs

docs/usage/vscode.mdx, after:

---
title: Visual Studio Code
description: See how Visual Studio Code and its extensions helps you run and debug your Pester tests directly inside the editor
---

Using Visual Studio Code with the latest [PowerShell extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.PowerShell) provides a great experience for writing PowerShell code. The extension includes Pester-specific features to improve the way you write, run and debug Pester tests.

### Code lens

With the `Pester: Code Lens` setting enabled, VSCode will show `Run tests` or `Debug tests` links above your Pester blocks for quick execution. Starting with Pester 5 this also works on individual tests. You can even run tests that are marked as skipped by running them individually.

![Shows a single test being run using the new Code Lens](images/single-test.gif)

To enable the improved code lens for Pester 5 you need to disable the "Use Legacy Code Lens" setting which is enabled by default.

1. In Visual Studio Code, open **File | Preferences | Settings** (<kbd>⌘/Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>,</kbd>)
2. In the **Settings** window, navigate to the **Extensions | PowerShell** section.
3. Uncheck the **Pester: Use Legacy Code Lens** checkbox.
4. Close the **Settings** window.

### Output verbosity

You can control the output verbosity level in VSCode output, or let it inherit from PesterPreference.

![Shows a run with normal preference that shows only errors](images/minimal-output.gif)

### Navigation

Pester-blocks are recognized by the PowerShell-extension to simplify navigation in your test files.

- The Outline panle shows an overview of your Pester-blocks.<br/>
  ![Shows a outline of Pester block structure in the sidepanel](images/vscode-outline.png)

- Your current location in easily identified using breadcrumbs or the sticky scroll features.<br/>
  ![Shows nested blocks as sticky lines above the current line in the editor](images/vscode-breadcrumbs.png)

- `Context`, `Describe` and `It` blocks are all searchable using Go to symbol commands.<br/>
  ![Shows a search result for Help is found-test using the Go To Symbol in Workspace command](images/vscode-symbol.png)
